{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23840\viewh13440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13280 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\cb3 IN presenting the following pages to the public, the writer, while he would urge his juvenility as a claim to candour, hopes not for partiality, where he must expect justice. He who appears at the bar of public opinion, has small reason to anticipate, from the indifference of the many, the preference he receives, only, from the sympathy of the few.\cb1 \
\cb3 A successful writer, by interesting the public mind, will insure popularity. But, as mankind are readers of books not by natural necessity, but from desire of improvement or gratification, those works will be consigned, and justly consigned, to oblivion, which administer neither pleasure nor advantage. To insure, therefore, that general approbation which every writer desires, he must produce such works as will not deserve contempt. With the majority of authors, apart from the pleasure they may confer, the reader is so little concerned, that it were a vain thing, by assigning private reasons for publishing, to expect general sympathy. As, in the publication of his works, every individual must have motives in his own estimation sufficient, it is the province of the public, not as the grand jury of literature to find bills or reject cases, but to hear them and decide. With such convictions, the writer of this little volume submits its contents to the judgment of the reader.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 'Twas on a night full fair as aught, I ween, Cynthia might smile on with her glittering train, When Pleasure's votaries 'neath her silvery sheen, Led on by Music's all inspiring strain; When nought of sadness, save the lover's plain, In myrtle grove, suing his mistress coy; Nor aught which might the flow of bliss restrain Amidst the carnival, or check the joy Where reeling Bacchanals their festive hours employ.\cb1 \
\cb3 II.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ah! heard ye not, e'en midst those blazing halls Where music flung her wildest symphony(Or is 't some phantom thus my brain appals ?) Yet still, methinks, an unspher'd Melody Struck her wild lyre: and, 'midst the revelry, Unearthly tones did drink my spirit up: And, to the strains of wizard harmony, O'er the blue flickering light, a haggard troop Of Sisters dire did dance-each hand in hand the group.\cb1 \
\cb3 III.\cb1 \
\cb3 And one did tell of scenes of blood, and drew A sword, and, with a demon-laugh, declar'd The gory blade lack'd argument:-she knewAnd, as she spake, the troubled torches flar'd! (But 'tis a dream! -no! no! too long I dar'd Th' unhallow'd sight; too long for mortal man) Now her strain'd orbs of vision wildly glar'd: "Thrice glorious sight! - Vesuvius I do scan! Haste! sisters, haste! and well we'll execute the plan!"\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 4\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 IV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Saw ye not, fondling o'er the infant germ \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of innocence, the father's om'nous tear? \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A foolish dread-yet, still his soul could worm, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Tho' undefin'd, some mystic cause of fear; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And, when his manly heart o'erflow'd, the ear \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of his lov'd spouse heard what herself had deem'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And straight she wept-yes, 'twas the death-bird near; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Old ocean groan'd, and midway ether teem'd! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 'Tis darkness all-earth trembles-the last star hath beam'd.\cb1 \
\cb3 V.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Ceas'd is the song; and ev'n the tuneful quire, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose notes could thrill the warrior-breast, doth faint; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Nor more might e'en Apollo's self inspire:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 And death-like stillness reign'd; save a dread plaint \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of untold woe: and Horror there did paint \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For Death, her master-piece: the picture pleas'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And the grim tyrant smil'd at the restraint, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And on his bow and quivering shaft he seiz'd. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 *\cb1 \
\cb3 *\cb1 \
\cb3 *\cb1 \
\cb3 *\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 *VI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Vain are your omens, vain your auguries! Yon flock of birds fly but the threaten'd ill : Vain are your offerings! for the Deities, Adverse to peace, your cup of sorrow fill. Ah! whither fly? terror pursues ye still: Those blood-stain'd fillets tell of vengeance nigh: Death in the breeze! flames for yon mountain rill! Earth groans in travail! glares the ensanguin'd sky! But, hark! again, once more, it is their harmony.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 "Sisters, hail! our task so bravely \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   We've accomplish'd, ere yon sun \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Burst morn's portals, we shall gravely \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Write in flames, 'our work is done.' \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 ""Cumbent in our hall of coral,\cb1 \
\cb3 'Neath the green wave's swelling surge,\cb1 \
\cb3 We will eke out wisdom's moral,\cb1 \
\cb3 And we'll chaunt a glorious dirge."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 VII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The fate we dread, curious, we dwell upon, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And fain would learn, what known, augments our woe; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 'Twould seem a bliss our very ills to con; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A dreary consolation to foreknow: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our present miseries yield nor ample show, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But on the wing of expectation we must pry \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Into futurity, and needs must have it so: \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Yet, still, forebodings dark their goads will ply,\cb1 \
\cb3 And vainly we resist the fears we cannot fly.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 VIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 There is a period in our very joys;\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 And, when our draught of bliss would seem excess, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  Dubious we scan the uncertain good that cloys: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And the heart sickens, while our sprightliness \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 May ill conceal the quivering tear;-distress, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Too plainly written in our veriest smiles, doth speak \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A language 'twere unseemly to express; \cb1 \
\cb3   While sadly gleams the blench'd eye but to eke \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Fears lighting up with hectic loveliness the cheek. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 IX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 So, Herculaneum, in thy festal hour \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Gush'd young love into liquid tenderness : \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For Helena was bless'd (tempests oft' low'r \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When smiles the landscape most); and the caress \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of her Leander, deepen'd a distress \cb1 \
\cb3 That wrapt in witching sadness her soft eye, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Till chasten'd to a tearful loveliness, \cb1 \
\cb3   Oh! was the joy illusive! could love fly \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Far kindlier days, to barb his arrow with a sigh! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \uc0\u935 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Lock'd in the soft embrace, subsides the fear \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That erst pre-monish'd her; when, lo! a dove, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 'Reft of its mate, educ'd her pensive tear; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 "It cannot be! will heaven thus blight 
\f1\i our 
\f0\i0 love?" \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Leander read the thought, and instant strove :- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But, as his full heart echo'd 
\f1\i that 
\f0\i0 his will \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Had fain suppress'd, his agony above\cb1 \
\cb3 The comprehension of his frame, was still!\cb1 \
\cb3 While, thro' his swimming brain, flit shadowy forms of ill.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 "Curst was the hour-oh! could this heart unteach- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But no! this hell of horror-though hell, heav'n! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For virtue's transcript thus I clasp, where each \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Soft grace, that 
\f1\i singly 
\f0\i0 might seem 
\f1\i rarely 
\f0\i0 giv'n, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Shines, as a mirror, where the fair, unshriv'n, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Reflected in the beauteous void, confess \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The sum of her perfections: since their leav'n \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Is not of imperfection, but excess \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Of all not deem'd unlovely, to voluptuousness."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The sun more brightly revels o'er the plain \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of the wild Arab, where his scorching beam \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Drinks up the moist secretions, life sustain; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Where tree, nor bird, but drowsy batwings teem; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Than where, in climes more genial, the full gleam \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of rays less torrid would fruition give; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 So Time, whose little pittance might redeem\cb1 \
\cb3 And cherish love, that e'en through storms can live,\cb1 \
\cb3 Oft rather grants to boors insensate, his reprieve.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 C\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XIII.\cb1 \
\cb3 "There is a high rock, in whose clefts the vine\cb1 \
\cb3 Prolific yields her purple progeny;\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 From whose gray summit, crown'd with stately pine, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We've mark'd the sun in liquid amber lie, \cb1 \
\cb3   Till, wrapt in am'rous twilight, the red sky \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Blush'd, as she drew night's curtain o'er the main; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Then, if, perchance, my Helena did sigh, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Oh! 'twas the music of a mournful plain,- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The fitful gush of love's o'ertun'd Eolian strain." \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XIV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Oh! 'tis a lovely spot-there wild goats browze \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Secure upon their craggy pinnacles; \cb1 \
\cb3 Where nature's grant, blest liberty allows; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 While, as they mark the varied spectacles, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Earth's teeming cities, ocean's glittering sails, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 In cynic apathy, as intervene\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Below their sunny height, fate's darkling ills, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 War--Famine-Desolation--o'er the scene, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Unmov'd, they ken the wreck of greatness that hath been.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 For, in the chase of glory there's a height: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Beyond, intoxicated, kingdoms reel! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Proud Rome, in her imperial blaze of might, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But lit the way to the barbarian's steel; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Earth perch'd her eagle, Ocean moor'd her keel, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Till northern vultures mark'd her for their prey; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Till tempest-struck, with many an eddying wheel, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Ingulf'd in dark Oblivion's cave she lay, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where mighty states of eld lie chain'd in throneless sway.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XVI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 It boots not, that "grim Desolation's lair" \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Be war's stern chariot, or the earthquake's throes; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Still, heaven's revokeless fiat he must dare; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Still, with his hundred arms, too well he knows \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To scatter ruin, nor the task foregoes; \cb1 \
\cb3  And, 'midst foreboding stillness, as he nears, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   (Save whisp'ring Horror's mystic tones) there grows \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   That mute despair, which flashes forth its fears, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As eye meets eye, and in the soul's delirium leers. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XVII.\cb1 \
\cb3 And Herculaneum well divin'd that hour:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 All, all, save him, than whom Verona own'd (1) \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 None brighter, 'midst her galaxy of power: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Save thee, illustrious Pliny; and as groan'd \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Vesuvius, on whose summit sat enthron'd \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That tow'ring cloud which met thine eager gaze, (2) \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Full many a blithe heart, as the earthquake moan'd \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Its hollow dirge athwart the festive blaze, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Sigh'd that it's giant strength might e'en their city raze.\cb1 \
\cb3 XVIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But fated Pliny, in thy quenchless thirst \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To drink in knowledge, e'en though nature faint \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Thy rage to satisfy, thou wast the first\cb1 \
\cb3 To cheer the crew, to sooth thy pilot's plaint, Whose eye, well practis'd, taught his heart's restraint; "Fortune," cried'st thou, as he would e'en return, "Befriends the brave:" (3) had'st thou foreknown her feint, Nor this last honour in thy train might burn, Nor her twin-sister Fame, thus proudly own thine urn.\cb1 \
\cb3 HERCULANEUM.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\cb3 I.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Italia's cloudless firmament serene, (Where, unobscur'd the sun with dazzling ray, Through heaven's blue canopy, lights up the scene) Smiles gentlest airs; and in the misty spray Of plashing falls, oft vagrant sunbeams stray; And twinkling rills, far mountains, sleeping lakes, And verdant elm-encircling vines, where stray The festive bands 'mongst odorous groves, and brakes, Where sings sweet Philomel till many an echo wakes\
\
II.\cb1 \
\cb3 With soft response, make glad this happy land. Here villas glisten on the mountain's side; Swift cataracts, and winding rivers, plann'd In nature's gayest mood-the tow'ring pride Of giant Alps, which o'er the scene presideThe warbling tenants of her woods, that trill Their strains of natural melody-the tide Of song and music, lovers' breasts to thrillThe dance-the shepherd's pipe-soft-bleating flocks-distil\cb1 \
\cb3 III.\cb1 \
\cb3 That bliss which only nature's children feel; As pants the soul to climb each steep-to live Along soft zephyrs-unobserv'd to steal Where wood-nymphs lave their fervid limbs, and strive In sylvan sports-where lovers love to shrive'Midst deepest glens, where am'rous boughs caress, Nor peering sunbeams dare the gloom, and liveWhere tangling roots, lav'd in their dark recess With rippling kisses, frown and scarce th' embrace confess\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 IV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where, deep in shadiest coverts, the soft stole Of po\'ebsy, in faintest numbers, steals (As distant falls their mountain-music roll, As dying echoes scarce repeat their peals) O'er the wrapt soul which inspiration feelsWhere, far from cities' hum, and life's gay scene, We commune with our hearts, and trace the wheels Of Time's fleet chariot, in the varying sheen(Now Spring, now Summer, Autumn, Winter now) and glean\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 V.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3  Instruction from fair Nature's page-each leaf \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Can task the sceptic; each reproof afford; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But most, in dire catastrophes Heav'ns chief \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Designs we read; when every blighted gourd \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our stubborn will subdues, till virtue is restor'd. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And Herculaneum fear'd, she knew not why- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor more the wine cup cheers the festive board; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor beauty's light feet in the dances fly; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 For strange unearthly sounds seem'd hurtling(1) in the sky.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 D\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 VI.\cb1 \
\cb3 How frail is all that's beautiful on earth!\cb1 \
\cb3 The fairest flow'rs seem loveliest as they fade; Uncertainty gives beauty heavenlier birth; As the bright sun, when threat'ning clouds invade, With deeper, mellower radiance, tints the glade. The last sweet odours of the fading rose Ask tears, that aught so beautiful 
\f1\i can 
\f0\i0 fade. E'en love itself, when stricken, lovelier grows, And gathers hope from hopelessness, and bliss from woes.\cb1 \
\cb3 VII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Those lovely forms of most ethereal mould, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose natural elegance of air and mien \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Bespeaks the spirit scarce by earth control'd; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose bright eyes revel in their beauteous sheen, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Pass like a burst of sunshine, and are seen \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 No more-like meteors on a midnight sky: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Too delicate to grace the dreary scene \cb1 \
\cb3   Of a bleak world, they blush, expand, and die; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To mem'ry leave their sweetness---to the heart a sigh! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 VIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 All--all that's beautiful and great decays, And noxious littleness exalts it's crestThe worth that struggles in degen'rate days, Corruption's tide to stem, becomes the jest, And then the mark of hate, too well express'dThe mighty tree that screens an abject state, Stands more expos'd to tempest than the rest; And when it shelters most, its doom, though late, Adds deadlier vengeance to the thunderbolts of fate.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 IX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The righteous die, and none their end deploreThe sensual revel in voluptuousness,\cb1 \
\cb3 And pierce the heart of virtue to the core;\cb1 \
\cb3 And suffering goodness deeper still depress;-But heav'n directs: and ev'n the very stress Of misery sends fainting souls on high; As struggling waves, when tempests heaviest press, From ocean's depths with mightier impulse fly, And, with impetuous rush, mount nearer to the sky!\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u935 .\cb1 \
\cb3 All-all must perish: the magnificence Of sea-girt Tyre, ocean's imperial queen, Against destruction prov'd no sure defence; The gorgeous purple that adorn'd her mien Stay'd not Destruction's hand; no more is seen The pomp and circumstance which commerce shed, Whose golden tide pour'd splendour o'er the scene; The crowded mart, where various nations spread Their merchandise, seems a still region of the dead!\cb1 \
\cb3 XI.\cb1 \
\cb3 Campania's plains were fair and flourishing, And Roman wealth and luxury had spread Around Vesuvius more than poets sing; Villas, halls, palaces-where fountains shed Their gushing freshness-shadiest walks that led The pensive loit'rer where the playful breeze Wanton'd with graceful foliage overheadWhere blushing flow'rs adorn'd the fragrant trees, Citron and pomegranate, whose grateful odours please.\
For Herculaneum was the fond retreat\cb1 \
\cb3 Of ease and opulence; and wealth had done\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3  Its wonders:-with magnificence replete, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And orient splendour, the fair city shone; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And aught that arms from eastern climes had won, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Or luxury contriv'd, was lavish'd there; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Rich porticoes t' exclude the noontide sun, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And sweets of Araby, and Egypt's fair \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Productions; aught that pleas'd the sense, or banish'd care.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But Herculaneum heav'n's dread cup must quaff! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For Vengeance stays not in his stern career, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Nor heeds soft blandishments, nor the loud laugh\cb1 \
\cb3 Of revelry; yet Herculaneum fear\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor terror knew, till from Vesuvius, sear\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 With conflagration, rush'd the awful cloud: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For, till that portent, none had deem'd so near \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The sad catastrophe; and from the crowd \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Of revellers the tide of song was pour'd aloud!\cb1 \
\cb3 1\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where'er the Roman eagles fly, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The Roman virtues shine; \cb1 \
\cb3 Fill, fill the sparkling goblet high, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  With bright Falernian wine. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2\cb1 \
\cb3 Bring, bring the garlands, strew the flow'rs,\cb1 \
\cb3 And scatter perfumes round;\cb1 \
\cb3 Let pleasure gild the fleeting hours,\cb1 \
\cb3 Where beauty's charms abound!\cb1 \
\cb3 3\cb1 \
\cb3 Our hopes are high, our swords are bright, And laurels shade our brows;\cb1 \
\cb3 Let mirth and music crown the night,\cb1 \
\cb3 And Bacchus hear our vows!\cb1 \
\cb3 4\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The morrow's sun may light no more \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   To conquest or to care; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Fill, fill the bowl with rosy gore,\cb1 \
\cb3 That each may pledge the fair.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XIV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But soon the song of impious mirth was hush'd!\cb1 \
\cb3 For awful sounds bespake volcanic rage:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Now, from Vesuvius' loftiest summit rush'd \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A tow'ring pyramid of flame-and sage, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But hapless, Pliny, deem'd that learning's page \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Might be enrich'd-and, when the mutt'ring sound \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of subterranean thunder seem'd to wage \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 An elemental war, his calm soul found\cb1 \
\cb3 A philosophic bliss, though earthquakes shook the ground.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3  Now, now unusual darkness mirks the sky, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  And the wild waves emit a lurid glare :- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Hark! hark! it is it is the dreadful cry \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  Of wand'ring spirits!-fearfully the flare \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Lights up the sulph'rous ether-deep despair, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   From eye to eye, shoots with electric flash;-- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  And ev'ry countenance is blanch'd with care;- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  And fearful yellings mingle with the dash \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of troubled ocean-louder, deadlier than the crash \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XVI.\cb1 \
\cb3 Of palaces that strew their wrecks around. Some seek by prayer and off'rings to appease Their deities: but earthquakes rend the groundThe hoary temples totter and some please Themselves with wildest phantasies, and seize, And madly dash their infants on the stones Of their fall'n tenements. Oh, for one breeze To purge the sulph'rous air! oh, for the tones Of some oblivious lyre, to quell these fearful groans!\cb1 \
\cb3 XVII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The gath'ring terror spread from hall to bow'r;- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And, as a stricken lily, the fair form \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Of Helena reclin'd-a beauteous flow'r,\cb1 \
\cb3 Too early nipp'd! -Leander clasp'd her warm\cb1 \
\cb3 But lifeless frame; and, as the storm\cb1 \
\cb3 Of deep emotions struggled in his brain,\cb1 \
\cb3 To heav'n, with look all desolate and lorn,\cb1 \
\cb3 His cheerless eyes he rais'd, and mournful plain, And to the wild winds pour'd a sadder, wilder strain :\cb1 \
\cb3 1\cb1 \
\cb3 My soul is like a wand'ring bark\cb1 \
\cb3 On life's tempestuous sea;\cb1 \
\cb3 My rudder's gone, and heaven is dark, And smiles no more for me.\cb1 \
\cb3 2\cb1 \
\cb3 Oh! I am like the forest oak\cb1 \
\cb3 That screens its ivy'd mate,\cb1 \
\cb3 Till the wild storm and lightning's stroke\cb1 \
\cb3 Give both a common fate.\cb1 \
\cb3 3\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis sad to see the soft flow'r fade\cb1 \
\cb3 And wither in the sun;\cb1 \
\cb3 Then welcome-welcome the mirk shade,\cb1 \
\cb3 The sands of life are run.\cb1 \
\cb3 E\
XVIII.\cb1 \
\cb3 When to the gorge gaunt wolves, in rav'ning prowl, Scour the bleak Alps, beneath the moon's dim ray, The soft flocks tremble, as th' uncertain howl Now sweeps the vale, anon the mountain way; In various tracks the fleecy wand'rers stray, Still doom'd to hear, whatever path they ply, The dismal, horror-thrilling, ceaseless bay: Oh! for some power to climb the trackless sky! Some power the too inevitable fate to fly.\cb1 \
\cb3 XIX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The flare of torches shews where stragglers wend: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Some seek the shore, but seek in vain; a few, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Cheerless themselves, yet cheer some fainting friend : \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But tenderness, chaste flow'r of heavenliest hue, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Loves not the sunless sky and clouded blue. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of chill adversity-nor frequent blows \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Where deep despair distils th' ungenial dew \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of apathy-nor its rich fragrance throws \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where loveliest natures learn deep selfishness from woes.\cb1 \
\cb3 XX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3    It was not that fond hearts were wanting there, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   That each seem'd wrapt in his own misery; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Though steel'd to apathy by fell despair, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   'Twas the deep feeling of the tearless eye; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Not selfishness, but voiceless agony! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The wish to save was there but tenderness \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Ev'n softest hearts, in fierce extremes, will fly- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Nor were those breasts less gentle, if the stress \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of woe made sympathy for 
\f1\i others' 
\f0\i0 weal the less. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 While Hope remain'd, affection linger'd near; But when 
\f1\i she 
\f0\i0 wav'd her golden wings and flew, Strong instinct own'd no passion but of fear! And glowing hearts, where kindliest feelings grew, Those tender names of soft endearment knew No more-sister, nor sire, wife, husband, friendAnd terror, there, a chilling influence threw, As from the sky the fiery plagues descendAnd widow'd Nature seem'd fast hast'ning to her end.\cb1 \
\cb3 XXII.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some, from despair, gain'd confidence, and fled;\cb1 \
\cb3 (Sad, sad alternative! to fly the scene\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 To mem'ry dear, or mingle with the dead!) \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With conscious innocence, some look'd serene- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Such, virtuous Pliny, was thy placid mien! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Upon the heav'ns, with stupefaction, some \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Gaz'd wildly!-others in small groups were seen- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And saddest sounds, as of the muffled drum \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 O'er valour's bier, rose fitfully with stifled hum!\cb1 \
\cb3 XXIII.\cb1 \
\cb3 On the dark sky, more exquisitely bright, The glowing flame and flashing lightning shew'd If sad the day, more terrible the night! And sounds, as though opposing armies rode With clatt'ring hoof, rush'd from the drear abode Of fire volcanic, with the impetuous show'r Of many-colour'd stones that brightly glow'd! Anon the heaving mountain own'd such pow'r Its troubled womb within, as when fierce tempests cower,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXIV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   And agonizing with big thunder clouds, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    Scare, with their deadly howl and deadlier bolt, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The sailor-boy, fast clinging to the shrouds! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Wild nature, reckless as th' unbridled colt, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   From stated laws urg'd on to deep revolt \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   By one ascendant element, misrule \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Express'd, and anarchy-as when a dolt \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   And dastard state, obsequious to some tool \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of faction, discord learns in civil war's fell school. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The misty undulating vapours seem'd, (Lit by the brightness) like a golden cloud Or spreading bow, that beautifully gleam'd, But not with hope! Anon was heard a loud And deaf'ning thunder-peal, as the dim shroud Of sulph'rous vapour wreath'd Vesuvius' brow ! With throes of anguish, the pain'd mountain bow'd Its giant form, which ne'er convuls'd till now, Seem'd doom'd to brave stern Time's slow desolating plough.\cb1 \
\cb3 XXVI.\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis sad to see the forms we doat upon\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   Yield 'neath the pressure of that soft disease, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Which sheds such beauty as it urges on, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    Its gloomiest presages have pow'r to please! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Sadly we listen, as the pensive breeze \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Wafts the shrill sorrows of some plaintive bird, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Whose tender young, dash'd rudely from the trees, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The parent mourns, in notes not tearless heard, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Her little nestlings, in their leafy grave interr'd. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXVII.\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis sad to trace those scenes, now desolate, Which once our youth and thoughtless childhood deem'd\cb1 \
\cb3 Less lovely, when, with airy schemes elate,\cb1 \
\cb3 Wildly advent'rous, the far prospect seem'd\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Sweeter than home, where peace and comfort beam'd! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Thus heedlessly each distant good we prize; \cb1 \
\cb3   Nor deem that on the present joy hath gleam'd; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    Till from the wish'd-for height, (oh sad surprise!) \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Back to the scene we've quitted all the brightness flies! \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 'Tis sad to think that voice is silent now,\cb1 \
\cb3 That lull'd our cradled-infancy; that hush'd\cb1 \
\cb3 Our little sorrows; taught our knees to bow,\cb1 \
\cb3 Our tongue to lisp in pray'r;-those eyes that gush'd With pity, dim; and quench'd that love that rush'd Our griefs to soothe and as the willows wave\cb1 \
\cb3 Over that sacred earth, when all is hush'd, 'Tis sadly-sweet with filial tears to lave\cb1 \
\cb3 The mournful spot, and deck with flow'rs a mother's grave.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXIX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Sadly the exil'd Negro thinks of home,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 His wife, his sire, his children and his friends!- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 'Tis sad, if long in distant climes we roam, \cb1 \
\cb3   To think that heart may beat no more, which sends \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   To heav'n the pray'r on which our weal depends!- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Sad to the peasant is the desolate spot \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    (When with wild rush the avalanche descends,) \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   As from some mountain's brow he mourns his lot, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Weeps for his home, his native vale, his little cot! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXX.\cb1 \
\cb3 But sadness is a name nor measureless\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor deep enough, when flaming cities burn, To tell those horrors, words can ill express!Woes fatally immitigable spurn Recital, but from such as ne'er return!Troy's overthrow, reluctantly, 
\f1\i he 
\f0\i0 told, Who sigh'd that Carthage' queen those ills would learn, Whose sad narration made his heart grow coldIlls, not Ulysses tearless nam'd, though fiercely bold.\cb1 \
\cb3 XXXI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3    If Priam fell, 'twas but the fate of kings- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   To wield the sceptre and to wear the shroud! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   'Twas Phrygian glory lent Destruction wings- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   As brightest suns attract the deepest cloud. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Not envied grandeur 
\f1\i Herculaneum 
\f0\i0 bow'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Her sons destroy'd, her city, and her name, - \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Though angry shades to blot her beauty crowd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   They follow not the brightness of her fame- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor hath she fall'n, but with dissolving nature's frame! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But she hath fall'n: those halls are tenantless,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where downy ease luxuriously reclin'd;- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor busy sounds the pensive ear oppress, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor mirth invades the solitary mind. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Where, once, the song and dance were unconfin'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In hallow'd musings the sad trav'ller dwells, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Weeps o'er a scene to darkness long consign'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A city mur'd in deep oblivion's cells, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Where not one blissful ray th' eternal gloom dispels.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 How short the reign of sublunary joy!\cb1 \
\cb3 The laughing day, though bright, oft sets in storms;So purest pleasures yield some deep alloy!Though heaven's clear blue no envious cloud deforms, But the mild sun, with mellow radiance, warms, And, o'er the landscape, pours his cheering light; Yet, in his course, the gath'ring vapour forms, Till parting gleams, slow struggling on the sight, He sets-like happiness-in dark tempestuous night!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 F\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXIV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   So Herculaneum's brightness pass'd away; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  Her morn was beautiful: the Roman, there, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Shed such magnificence that all was gay; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Her noontide lovelier shew'd, unblanch'd with care, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Such splendour hers, she seem'd more passing fair : \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  But evening clouds proclaim the approaching ire \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Of the fierce element, whose stores prepare \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Their fatal vengeance-till convulsions dire \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Scare the nocturnal blackness with tremendous fire! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXV.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sad hour of travail and deep agony!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The lab'ring mountain groans with inward pain! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Her burning entrails lash the startled sky, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And, swift disgorg'd, now headlong fill the plain, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Now, in red surges light the troubled main;- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But deadlier pangs the tortur'd mountain shews \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Sad presages of a still deadlier bane; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Now deeper, stronger, mightier yet the throes,\cb1 \
\cb3 Till scarce her bursting womb contains the struggling woes!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXVI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   Drear was the night, and Desolation's power \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    Stalk'd wildly forth, lit by volcanic fire; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Not one bright ray to light the cheerless hour- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Not one glad tone from Hope's delusive lyre-- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The song no more-no more the thrilling quire- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   For, from the mountain's side, with dazzling light, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The flaming ministers of Death conspire- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   The burning lava pours its quenchless might, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And sweeps the beauteous scene to everlasting night. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XXXVII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 From joy to grief, life's changeful current flows, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose restless waves such quick transition bring, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 From fortune's heights, anon to headlong woes, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They sweep earth's mightiest son, though sceptred-king. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Say what is happiness! -the bird of spring \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That speeds its course to cheer youth's halcyon-day; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Stoops earthward, on its bright ethereal wing, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Deigns but one glance, but one celestial lay, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Descends,-bears heav'n to mortals, -sings, and flies away.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 I.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 'Tis morn!-the level sun shines mildly bright; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But not on Herculaneum rests that beam, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Which, in her splendour, pour'd its golden light \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 O'er fanes and palaces for as a dream \cb1 \
\cb3 That quick dissolves before morn's cheerful gleam, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Her pomp and loveliness had pass'd away; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor was there aught of bliss which might redeem \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  From Desolation's power, or shed one ray \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 To chase the shades of death, or gild her sunless day.\cb1 \
\cb3 II.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   In dire extremes, what mind its tension keeps! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Joy laughs, ecstatic, in his wild ascent!- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Despair sits motionless in misery's deeps!- \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Though calm the soul, when grief in tears is spent, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   In minds where stifled passion finds no vent \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   For sorrow's flood, or joy's electric fire, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Surcharg'd with bliss, the bursting soul is rent; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Or, in dull moodiness, and sullen ire \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Its listless woes in drear inanity expire. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 III.\cb1 \
\cb3 Of those who fled, a few-save one, a boy,\cb1 \
\cb3 Too young to know, though slave-born, slav'ry's pains,\cb1 \
\cb3 With flight intoxicated, died of joy!\cb1 \
\cb3 With frantic energy, a few their chains\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Had burst, and dungeon-fetters, till the reins \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Which held in durance, snapt, as the wild steed \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That snuffs the lib'ral air and scours the plains \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  Inspir'd with liberty, their ev'ry deed \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Had all th' extravagance of slaves from bondage freed.\
\
But, where the few rejoice, the many weep.\cb1 \
\cb3 Though wretches smil'd, and call'd destruction friend, There were, who mourn'd, in lamentation deep, Their much-lov'd city, and bewail'd her end. For some, in that sad night, had lost or friend, Sire, wife, or child; dear names which ne'er depart, But, in the soul, with tenderest feelings blend; Names, from whose thrilling sympathies to part, 'Tis death, 'tis worse than death-the shipwreck of the heart!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 V.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 What wonder, when such bands can chain the soul, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That some to silent apathy sunk down! \cb1 \
\cb3 The heart that loves intensely may controul; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But none, in Lethe's depths, those feelings drown, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose germ survives, or blight, or wintry frown! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Oh! friendship, love, or whatsoe'er the spell \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 That links in tender charities, slave, clown, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Prince, peasant, swain, 'tis heaven with thee to dwell; From thee disseverd, heav'n itself, though heav'n, were hell.\cb1 \
\cb3 G\cb1 \
\cb3 VI.\cb1 \
\cb3 There is a grief of feeling that will live, And deeper strike its fond tenacious roots, When tempests howl, and sweeter odours give; Grief which, in storms, puts forth its tenderest shoots, And smiles on heaven, with love's delicious fruits, Though skies are sunless:-thus, untrain'd by art, Grew loveliest sympathies: -though ill it boots That such should bloom from friendship's beam apart, Yet, who can love, and lose, and staunch the bleeding heart!\cb1 \
\cb3 VII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3   But, there was one, a sire of reverend mien, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Whose silvery locks gleam'd mildly in the sun; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Firm was his step, calm, placid, and serene. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3    Withal, at intervals, he seem'd as one \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   On whom despair her deadliest work had done: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   And, though the tide of feeling urg'd its course, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  And its full vent, well nigh, in tears had won, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Yet, in one big recoil, with headlong force, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Upon the heart thrown back, 'twas stifled in its source. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 VIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 So near th' extremes of apathy and tears! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 One faint pulsation bids the passions flow; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 One chilling thought can freeze to sluggish fears, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And dull inanity. No common woe \cb1 \
\cb3   His heart had sear'd; for, from that fatal blow, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Childless and way-worn, 'twas his lot to roam; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   Unbless'd by filial care, toss'd to and fro, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3   From wave to wave, like ocean's restless foam, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Cast on a friendless world, from happiness and home. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 IX.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 For he had lost his Helena, his child,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The last lov'd scion of a blasted line; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whose tender care his weary age beguil'd: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And, if 'twere hard untimely to resign \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A heart so lovely, innocent, benign; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 'Twas still more touching, that that form was rife \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With power to wake from memory's shadowy mine, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And image forth to beauty and to life, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Each lineament and grace of a fond youthful wife.\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u935 .\cb1 \
\cb3 No more-his bursting soul, o'erwrought with grief,\cb1 \
\cb3 With earthly things he held no sympathy;\cb1 \
\cb3 One gush of tenderness had brought relief;\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But tears with him, or joys, had lost their plea; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For nought he lov'd, or feard, or car'd to flee; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Confounded, lost, bewilder'd, phrenzied, spent, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 He seem'd the sport of each extremity; \cb1 \
\cb3    Till, all his hopes in one sad ruin blent, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 His passing spirit sigh'd a last, loud, deep lament. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 1.\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis o'er-'tis o'er-oh! heaven, 'tis o'er!\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 My shatter'd soul is rent,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 With passion's throes, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And nameless woes, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 That leave me nought to fear, deplore,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Or sigh that life is spent.\cb1 \
\cb3 2.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Oh! I could weep the fatal night, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3     Sad night of death and fears ! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But what have I,\cb1 \
\cb3 Beneath the sky,\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 'Reft of my all, in one drear blight, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3     That asks or joy or tears! \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 In victory's arms to yield this fleeting life, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With fame to blazon forth the martial deed, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Were deem'd of glory, by the sons of strife. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And sure their names deserve the heart-felt meed \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And laurel-wreath, who, for their country, bleed; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Those dauntless breasts, whose valour urges on, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In freedom's soil, to cast the sacred seed \cb1 \
\cb3   Of liberty, and cherish what they've won, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With tears and blood, as on thy plain, oh Marathon! \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 XII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Who would not covet such a glorious doom \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As theirs, whose high-born spirit might not flee \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The Persian's rage, nor fear a patriot's tomb! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Who brav'd the storm at dread Thermopyl\'e6! \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 High o'er that holy spot the spreading tree \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of Freedom long her sacred boughs shall wave; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In every age, the sons of liberty \cb1 \
\cb3   Shall come, as pilgrims, with their tears to lave \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The awful ashes there, and bless the patriot's grave. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XIII.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 But, to be exil'd from one's hearth and home, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 By famine, war, or pestilence, or fire; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 O'er life's sad wilderness of care to roam, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With every feeling crush'd, and fond desire; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With memory's canker-worm the soul to tire, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3  In fruitless yearnings o'er our far-flown joys; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With thought to steal the mind's Promethean fire, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And slowly tell life's bitterest alloys; \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 This is that living death, which, more than death, destroys!\cb1 \
\cb3 XIV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 'Twas this consum'd fair Helena's sad sire: \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The keen reflection, the sad retrospect, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 No future joy to wing the light desire, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And bear aloft the soul, when ills deject. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Behind, the tempest; -with the lightning fleck'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The distance threaten'd, as the past had scar'd. \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If Desolation with huge spoils were deck'd, \cb1 \
\cb3    Still, in the whirlwind, Discord's torches flar'd, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And light, but not of hope, -than darkness deadlier, glar'd. \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 XV.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The unsunn'd flower must wither, droop, and die; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Spring's earliest promise shuns the sickly gleam, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When wintry blasts resume the vernal sky; \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So, when black care and huge afflictions teem, \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nor soft affection yields its cheering beam, \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Must weary age recline its drooping head,\cb1 \
\cb3 And float adown mortality's rude stream;\cb1 \
\cb3 Cast, like a lily, on its watery bed,\cb1 \
\cb3 That lives, while life is fair, then, mingles with the dead.\cb1 \
\cb3 XVI.\cb1 \
\cb3 Full many a fugitive, with sorrow, plied His dreary wandering, as the wave-worn bark, Upon the mightiest billow, still may ride: But to 
\f1\i his 
\f0\i0 soul, the night was rude and dark; With hope, nor compass, nor the glimmering spark Of solitary star. Thus, thus, unbless'd, His sun went down, with none, he lov'd, to mark His dying wish, record that wish, confess'd; Thus sunk his weary age, eternally to rest.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 than whom 
\f0\i0 Verona onn'd\cb1 \

\f1\i \cb3 None brighter
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i 'midst her galaxy of power
\f0\i0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Stanza xvii., line 2.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 "Few towns have contributed more largely to the reputation of Roman literature, or have been more fertile in the production of genius, taste and knowledge, than Verona. Catullus and Macer, supposed to be introduced by Virgil into his Eclogues, under the pastoral name of Mopsus; Cornelius Nepos and Pomponius Secundus; Vitruvius and Pliny the Elder, form a constellation of luminaries of the first magnitude, and shed a distinguishing lustre on the place of their birth and early education."-
\f1\i Eustace's Classical 
\f0\i0 Tour, Vol. I. Chap. 
\f1\i II
\f0\i0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 H\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.\cb1 \
\cb3 That tow'ring cloud 
\f1\i which met 
\f0\i0 thine 
\f1\i eager gaze
\f0\i0 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Stanza xvii., line 6.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 We are informed, in a letter from Pliny the Younger to his friend Tacitus, that, at the time when the eruption took place, his uncle was stationed with the fleet under his command at Misenum. "On the 24th. of August (says this writer) about one in the afternoon, my mother desired him to observe a cloud, which appeared of a very unusual size and shape. He had just returned from taking the benefit of the sun, and after bathing himself in cold water, and taking a slight repast, was returned to his study. He immediately arose and went out upon an eminence, from whence he might more distinctly view this very uncommon appearance. It was not at that distance discernible from what mountain this cloud issued, but it was found afterwards to ascend from Mount Vesuvius. I cannot give you a more exact description of its figure, than by resembling it to that of a pine tree; for it shot up a great height in the form of a trunk, which extended itself at the top into a sort of branches; occasioned, I imagine, either by a sudden gust of air that upheld it, the force of which decreased as it advanced upwards; or the cloud itself being pressed back again by its own weight, expanded in this manner. It appeared sometimes bright and sometimes dark and spotted, as it was either more or less impregnated with earth and cinders.-
\f1\i Melmoth's Trans
\f0\i0 lation 
\f1\i of Pliny's Letters
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i Book VI
\f0\i0 . 
\f1\i Let
\f0\i0 . 16.\cb1 \
\cb3 3.\cb1 \
\cb3 "
\f1\i Fortune
\f0\i0 ," 
\f1\i cried'st thou
\f0\i0 , as 
\f1\i he would e'en return
\f0\i0 ,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Befriends 
\f1\i the brave
\f0\i0 ."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Stanza xviii. line 7.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Considerable curiosity having been excited in the mind of Pliny, by the appearance of so extraordinary a phenomenon, he desired that\
\
a light vessel should be prepared, that he might take a nearer view of it. "As he was coming out of the house he received a note from Rectina, the wife of Bassus, who was in the utmost alarm at the imminent danger which threatened her: for her villa being situated at the foot of Mount Vesuvius, there was no way of escape but by sea; she earnestly entreated him, therefore, to come to her assistance. He accordingly changed his first design, and what he began with a philosophical, he pursued with an heroical turn of mind. He ordered the gallies to put to sea, and went himself on board, with an intention of assisting, not only Rectina, but several others; for the villas stand extremely thick upon that beautiful coast. When hastening to the place from whence others fled with the utmost terror, he steered his direct course to the point of danger; and with so much calmness and presence of mind, as to be able to make and dictate his observations upon the motion and figure of that dreadful scene. He was now so nigh the mountain that the cinders, which grew thicker and hotter the nearer he approached, fell into the ships, together with pumice-stones and pieces of burning rock. They were likewise in danger, not only of being a-ground by the sudden retreat of the sea, but also from the vast fragments which rolled down from the mountain, and obstructed all the shore. Here he stopped to consider whether he should return back again; to which the pilot advising him, "
\f1\i Fortune
\f0\i0 ," said he, "
\f1\i befriends the brave
\f0\i0 ; carry me 
\f1\i to Pomponianus
\f0\i0 ."\cb1 \
\cb3 "Pomponianus was then at Stabi\'e6, separated by a gulf which the sea, after several insensible windings, forms upon the shore. He had already sent his baggage on board; for though he was not at that time in actual danger, yet being within the view of it, and indeed extremely near, if it should in the least increase he was determined to put to sea, as soon as the wind should change. It was favourable however for carrying my uncle to Pomponianus, whom he found in the greatest consternation: he embraced him with tenderness, encouraging and exhorting him to keep up his spirits; and the more to dissipate his\cb1 \
\cb3 fears, he ordered, with an air of unconcern, the baths to be got ready; when after having bathed he sate down to supper with great cheerfulness, or at least, what is equally heroic, with all the appearance of it. In the mean-while the eruption from Mount Vesuvius, flamed out in several places with much violence, which the darkness of the night contributed to render still more visible and dreadful. But my uncle in order to sooth the apprehensions of his friend, assured him it was only the burning of the villages, which the country people had abandoned to the flames. After this he retired to rest and it is most certain he was so little discomposed as to fall into a deep sleep: for. being pretty fat, and breathing hard, those who attended without actually heard him snore. The court which led to his apartment being now almost filled with stones and ashes, if he had continued there any time longer, it would have been impossible for him to have made his way out, it was thought proper, therefore, to awaken him. He got up and went to Pomponianus and the rest of his company, who were not unconcerned enough to think of going to bed. They consulted together whether it would be most prudent to trust to the houses, which now shook from side to side, with frequent and violent concussions, or fly to the open fields, where the calcined stones and cinders, though light indeed, yet fell in large showers, and threatened destruction. In this distress they resolved for the fields, as the less dangerous situation of the two: a resolution which, while the rest of the company were hurried into by their fears, my uncle embraced on cool and deliberate consideration. They went out then, having pillows tied upon their heads with napkins; and this was their whole defence against the storm of stones that fell around them. It was now day every where else; but there, a deeper darkness prevailed than in the most obscure night, which, however, was in some degree dissipated by torches and other lights of various kinds. They thought proper to go down farther upon the shore, to observe if they might safely put out to sea; but they found the waves still run extremely high and boisterous. There my uncle, having drunk a glass or two\cb1 \
\cb3 of cold water, threw himself down upon a cloth which was spread for him, when immediately the flames and a strong smell of sulphur, which was the forerunner of them, dispersed the rest of the company, and obliged him to rise: he raised himself up with the assistance of two of his servants, and instantly fell down dead: suffocated, as I conjecture, by some gross and noxious vapour, having always had weak lungs, and frequently subject to a difficulty of breathing. As soon as it was light again, which was not till the third day after this melancholy accident, his body was found entire, and without any marks of violence upon it, exactly in the same position that it fell and looking more like a man asleep than dead."
\f1\i -Melmoth's 
\f0\i0 Translation of Pliny's Letters
\f1\i , Book VI. Letter 
\f0\i0 16.\cb1 \
\cb3 CANTO II.\cb1 \
\cb3 1.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 For strange unearthly sounds seem'd 
\f0\i0 hurtling 
\f1\i in the 
\f0\i0 sky.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Stanza v., line 9.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li530\fi-531\sa265\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 "Iron-sleet of arrowy shower \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 "Hurtles in the darken'd air." \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Gray.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 "The noise of battle 
\f1\i hurtled 
\f0\i0 in the air."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Shakspeare.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa132\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
}