{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red242\green242\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c96078\c96078\c96078;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11700\viewh15320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
DEMOCRITUS: \
\
\
\
And in a box us clo\uc0\u383 ely lock. \
Out of this box we never more \uc0\u383 hall ri\u383 e \
To view the \uc0\u383 un which once had che. red our eyes, \
\
\
\
Let us laugh to-day, that foul thief Death | | \
Will at our door to-morrow knock, | \
He will get in, ding out our breath, \
\
\
Aion diieiocuad \
my numerous s friends, the book makers, have, in former times, heard me \
Geh vehemently declaim again\uc0\u383 t that wicked \
: cu\uc0\u383 tom of writing prefaces. They will \
now be a\uc0\u383 toni\u383 hed, that I fit down to a work, upon \
which I endeavoured to per\uc0\u383 uade them never to employ their time and attention.. | \
Bur I here beg that they would con\uc0\u383 ider, that \
F am: prefacing for my departed friend, of whom \'de \
Mall \uc0\u383 peak by-and-by, and not for my\u383 elf. They \
mult allow me, upon this oecafion, to u\uc0\u383 e the words \
ef a great man, concerning the pomp and rites of a \
funeral, who ob\uc0\u383 erved, That it is a very honorable \
thing for a man to give him\uc0\u383 elf a great deal of trous \
ble with relation to the interment of another, at the \
Jame time to be litt!: concerned about bis own, And \
in truth, if it be an inglorious thing, for a man to \
\uc0\u383 eck glory, even when he de\u383 erves it, who doth not \
ide, among\uc0\u383 t the immen\u383 e number cf pref. es with \
waich writers have \uc0\u383 welled their books, if vou except a \u383 ew of them, i in which judgment an. | di \{Crestion are di\u383 played throughout, and which are either nece\u383 \u383 ary, or u\u383 eful, that all the re\u383 t, how \
\
\
flowery and magnificent \uc0\u383 ocver they may be, are \
\
\
rather blame than prai\uc0\u383 e-worthy 2 For after all, if \
in the fir\uc0\u383 t place you entertain your reader with \
\
the excellence of what you have given him, with: \
\
\
the difficulties which you have found in your labours, with the powers which you mu\uc0\u383 t have pof\u383 e\u383 led to \u383 urmount them; to be\u383 eech and flatter him \
in \uc0\u383 ome places, to brave and de\u383 y him in others; \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ometimes to talk to him \u383 ubmi\u383 \u383 ively, and at other \
times authoritatively, do you not intend, by \uc0\u383 o do- \
\
\
ing, either to wre\uc0\u383 t from him his approbation by \
\
\
force, or as a Spaniard \uc0\u383 aid, plea\u383 antly enough, 20 \
beg it with tears in your eyes; and alfo to di\uc0\u383 cover \
\
\
to the publick, a weakne\uc0\u383 s \u383 o much the greater, as, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 o far from ridding your\u383 elf of it, you have not been \
\
\
able to di\uc0\u383 \u383 emble it? If our works are good, we \
may depend upon the honour of all ages, which \
\
\
bave ever been rea\uc0\u383 onable in their deci\u383 ions. The \
world \uc0\u383 ooner or later will do us ju\u383 tice, without \
\
\
our having the \uc0\u383 hame of \u383 olliciting it. If our works \
are bad, or perhaps imperfect, we \uc0\u383 hould rather \
\uc0\u383 uppre\u383 s than defend them, correct our fanlts than \
\
\
excu\uc0\u383 e them. Let us-not expect that our clo- \
quence will be as \uc0\u383 ucce\u383 sful as was that of the fa- \
\
\
mous Grecian general Pericles, who, when he was \
\
\
thrown upon the ground, into the dirt, per\uc0\u383 uaded his \
afliftants, that he had not fallen, and compelled them \
to believe his words \uc0\u383 ooner than their own eyes. Be- \
\
\
Kees, if it is a difficult thing for a man to know \
\
\
him\uc0\u383 elf, how much more fo is it, for him to \u383 peak \
of him\uc0\u383 elf as he ought to do? In which particular, \
\
\
although we think asweought, we ought not always \
to \uc0\u383 ay wat we think, where open and declared vanity \
\
\
\
is in\uc0\u383 upportable, and exce\u383 \u383 ive humility always \u383 u\u383 . \
pected to be vanity. concealed: where the road, \
which we mu\uc0\u383 t take between the\u383 e two, is \u383 o \u383 traits. \
and \uc0\u383 o hard to keep, that I do not know by what \
rea\uc0\u383 on, or to \u383 peak better, by what mi\u383 take, \u383 o ma- \
ny people embark, without nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ity, upon a \u383 ea \u383 o \
full of rocks, and famous for \uc0\u383 o many \u383 hipwrecks, \
Bor we have nothing to fear, of this kind, \
when we toil for a deeea\uc0\u383 ed friend. It becomes \
us well to demand with warmth, glory, and prai\uc0\u383 es, \
which do not. look to our\uc0\u383 elves; to excu\u383 e faults. \
which we our\uc0\u383 elves have not committed; to \u383 peak \
for him, who can no longer defend him\uc0\u383 elf. - Pa\u383 - \
\uc0\u383 ion and \u383 trength have here a good grace; and \
though we \uc0\u383 hould go a little beyond the truth, and \
of a great man make a very. great man, tho\uc0\u383 e even \
who \uc0\u383 hall condemn our judgment, will e\u383 teem our \
a\uc0\u383 fection, and with to have, them\u383 elves, friends like \
us. + \
| To leave this general di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e; I \u383 hall now \
\uc0\u383 peak of my late friend, Mr. Price of Cardigan \u383 bire, \
the writer of this book, no more than I think he \
de\uc0\u383 erves. He was a gentleman mo\u383 t friendly, hu- \
mane, and generous; a molt entertaining, faceti- \
ous companion, of excellent good \uc0\u383 en\u383 e, and well \
\
\
acquainted with the learned and modern languages, \
\
\
which the hi\uc0\u383 tory of his travels, when it comes to \
\
\
be publi\uc0\u383 hed, will evidently te\u383 tify. \
\
\
TI xxnzw him well at Naples, About a week \
before he left this city, he was led by curio\uc0\u383 ity to \
venture him\uc0\u383 elf among the ruins of Herculaneum, \
where the manu\uc0\u383 cript of the following book was ei- \
ther dropt by him out of his pocket or \uc0\u383 tolen from \
him. It was brought to me by one of the Miners \
in that \uc0\u383 ubterranean city, after Mr. Price was gone \
\
\
\
to Rome. About a month after his arrival there \
he died of a fever. To prevent the lots of \uc0\u383 o valuable a trea\u383 ure to the public, I have now printed it, \
\
\
a\uc0\u383 \u383 oon as I could after my arrival in Zngland. \
LesT I \uc0\u383 hould be thought \u383 omewhat wanting \
to the honour of my friend, and the advantage of \
this book, I mu\uc0\u383 t now recommend it tomy readers. \
J have not the lea\uc0\u383 t doubt but they will take my \
word for it, when I tell them, that there is not one \
better written extant, upon the \uc0\u383 ubject, \u383 ince the \
\
\
days of Noah. It is \uc0\u383 ull, from the beginning to \
\
\
the end, of wile \uc0\u383 ayings, divercingifiories; kim \
rous and lively je\uc0\u383 ts. But as it may come to pa\u383 s, \
that \uc0\u383 ome unbehever, whom I \u383 hould count to be \
no better than a ew, may di\uc0\u383 pute my veracity in \
this point; if there \uc0\u383 hould be, I fay, fach an one; \
1 beg that he would con\uc0\u383 ult x book lately publi\u383 h< \
ed by the profound George Frederick Meier, pro- \
Fe\uc0\u383 \u383 or of philo\u383 ophy at Halle, member of the Royal as \
\
\
cademy at Berlin, upon je\uc0\u383 ting, \u383 et. 9. He will. \
\
\
and, by attending to the principles there deliver- \
ed, that all the je\uc0\u383 ts in our book are true \u383 terling \
gold: That they are, in his words, loc. cit. Branch\'bb \
es of the \uc0\u383 en\u383 itive knowledge, and expre\u383 \u383 ions of that \
knowledge, or \uc0\u383 en\u383 itive di\u383 cour\u383 es produced by the in\u383 erior cogna\u383 citive faculties of the foul; and in pars \
ticular, by the \uc0\u383 en\u383 itive wit, and fonfrtive acumen \
\
\
or penetration. And that they are thoroughly con- \
for mable to the rules, which he tells us have been \
\
\
bappily di\uc0\u383 covered\'94 to the world, and which, like \
many other good things, have been highly prized \
\
\
by the learned, and the adepts in the Zfhetic Science, and have been abu\uc0\u383 ed, and de\u383 pi\u383 ed 0 the \
vulgar. \
\
\
As to the utility of this book, a je\uc0\u383 t i in it, apaiy applied fromthe mouth of di\u383 cretion, will recon- \
cile the enemy, delight the companion, di\uc0\u383 pel \
corroding anxiety, \uc0\u383 ooner, and more power\u383 ully \
than cardiacal pill, bolus, or potion. In \uc0\u383 hort, a \
quantum \uc0\u383 u\u383 \u383 icit, \u383 ecundum artem, of our plea\u383 ant \
words wall be as an honey-comb, \uc0\u383 weet to the \u383 aul, \
and health to the bones. Thereby, you may re\uc0\u383 t \
a\uc0\u383 \u383 ured, that old age alone, -accidents excepted, \
will.put a period to your\uc0\u383 ublunary exi\u383 tence, 'This \
I prove by giving you one example, out of many, | \
5 namely that of Democritus, who\uc0\u383 e name, not im- | \
\
properly, \uc0\u383 tands at the head of the title-page. - He \
was the greate\uc0\u383 t philo\u383 opher of his time, born in \
. Abdera, a city of Thrace, about 2, 200 years ago. \
Y From him the celebrated Epicurus, and con\uc0\u383 equent- \
ly Lucretius, derived all their knowledge. He ince\uc0\u383 \u383 antly laughed at, and je\u383 ted upon the bu\u383 ine\u383 s, | \
4 vanities, follies, and mi\uc0\u383 eries of men; infomuch \
4 that his fellow - citizens \uc0\u383 aid, he was frantick, and | \
1 \uc0\u383 ent the famous phy\u383 ician Hippecrates to cure him \
\
4 who a\uc0\u383 ter he had talked a while with him, return \
\
8 ed, and pronounced tho\uc0\u383 e to be mad- men who had \
* accu\uc0\u383 ed him of folly. Vid. Hiptecrat. Epi\u383 tolas. ' \
4 || When he was near death, he kept him\uc0\u383 elf alive, | \
4 three days, only by the \uc0\u383 mell of hot bread, and | \
a then expired, very ea\uc0\u383 ily, without a convul\u383 ion, or | \
2 groan, aged one hundred and nine years. Vid. Di- | \
. og. Laert.. \'a3 | \
bh Cicero was al\uc0\u383 o a man ob infinite humour. Cato | \
"A laid of him, babemus facetum con\uc0\u383 udem, we have a \
\
d je\uc0\u383 ling con\u383 ul. He was every day \u383 training at je\u383 is; \
\
he many of them are extant, mere puns and quibbles, \
\
he wor\uc0\u383 e than the wor\u383 t of ours. Being of \u383 o merrx | \
\
\
a di\uc0\u383 po\u383 ition, he would hare liveda hundred years, \
A and upwards, even as long as his wife Terentia did, \
\
\
\
if Anteny had not \uc0\u383 hortened his days by cutting off \
\
\
his head, when he was only fixty three years of \
age. | \
\
TRE okilofopher Heraclitus, farnamed the \
Dark, born at Ephe\uc0\u383 us, about forty years before \
Democritus, was the "contra\uc0\u383 t of the\u383 e. He daily \
bewailed the vices, and mi\uc0\u383 eries of the world. \
Whenever he came into the company of men, he \
wept. At la\uc0\u383 t he entirely \u383 hunned them, and betook him\u383 elf to the mountains, where he lived upon gra\u383 s and herbs, which brought a drop\u383 y upon \
him, by which he ended his mi\uc0\u383 erable life, in the \
\uc0\u383 trength of his years. He was \u383 uch a blockhead, \
as to write many books, con\uc0\u383 i\u383 ting of inexplicable \
\
\
allegories. e \
\
\
EuRIP1DESs brought a treati\uc0\u383 e of his uponnature\'94 \
\
\
to Fcrates in order for him to read it. When \
Euripides afterwards a\uc0\u383 ked him his opinion of \
it, Socrates told him that what he under\uc0\u383 tood of it \
was good, and he \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 ed the remainder was \u383 o; \
but chat none but a diver f the i\uc0\u383 land of De \
could penetrate to the bottom of it. \
\
ISRHALL now \uc0\u383 ay no more than this: If you would \
be eminently di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed from the beafts that peri\u383 b, by that \u383 ingular characteri\u383 tical mark of humanity, rifibility, I exhort you to buy, read, remember, and retail the contents of this ine\u383 tima- \
ble book, which you have in your hands. \'97 Here, \
\
\
gentle reader, as it becomes me, I take a civil leave \
of you for the pre\uc0\u383 ent. \
\
\
\
LAUGH, JOKE, AND BE MERRY WHENEVER YOU CAN; \
FoR NO ONE DELIGHTS IN A SORKOWFUL MAN, \
\
\
\
\
WFEIFXHHEN Dr. Swift was dean of St. Pa- \
trick's, he was informed by one of the \
chapter, that the beadle of the cathedral \
NIN was a poet. The doctor \uc0\u383 ent for him, \
and a\uc0\u383 ked him \u383 ome-que\u383 tions relating to his poeti- \
cal talents, which he mode\uc0\u383 tly di\u383 claimed, a\u383 \u383 erting \
that he wrote only for his bell. It being winter, \
the doctor in\uc0\u383 i\u383 ted he \u383 hould compo\u383 e \u383 ome ver\u383 es \
on the fi\uc0\u383 th of November, and repeat them under \
his window; which accordingly he did; and the \
dean was \uc0\u383 o plea\u383 ed, that he rewarded the compo\u383 er \
with a guinea, declaring, at the \uc0\u383 ame time, he was | \
\
\
JW \
\
\
a better poet than Ambrole Fhilips. The follows \
\
\
DEMOCRITU Ss: OR, \
\
\
ing were the lines repeated under the dean's window : \
\
\
To night's the day, I \uc0\u383 peak it with great \u383 orrow, \
\
\
That we wereall thave been blown up to-morrow; \
\
\
Therefore take care of fires and candle-light, \
*Tis a cold fro\uc0\u383 ty morning, and \u383 o good night. \
\
\
Ix the year 1712, Matthew Prior, who waz \
then fellow of St. John's, and who not long before \
had been employed by the queen as her plenipotentiaryatthe court.of France, came to Cambridge, \
and next morning paid a vi\uc0\u383 it to the ma\u383 ter of his \
own college. The ma\uc0\u383 ter (whether Dr. Gower or \
Dr. Jenkins, isuncertain) loved Mr. Prior's princi- \
\
\
ples, had a great opinion of his abilities, and a re- \
\uc0\u383 pect for his character in the world; but then he \
had a much greater re\uc0\u383 pect for him\u383 elf. He knew \
his own dignity too well to \uc0\u383 uffer a fellow of his \
college to fit down in his pre\uc0\u383 ence. He kept his \
\
\
\uc0\u383 eat him\u383 elf, and let the queen's amba\u383 \u383 ador \u383 tand. \
Piqued a little at that, Mat. compo\uc0\u383 ed an extempo- \
\
\
re epigram on the reception he had met with. It \
\
\
was not reckoned in tho\uc0\u383 e days, that he had a very \
happy turn for an epigram. But the occa\uc0\u383 ion was \
tempting; and he \uc0\u383 truck it off, as he was walking \
from St. John's college to the Ro\uc0\u383 e to dinner. It \
was addre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed to the ma\u383 ter, and was as follows: \
\
\
5 flood, fir, patient at your feet, \
- Before your elbow- chair; \
But make a bi\uc0\u383 hop's throne your \u383 eat, \
I'll kneel before you there. \
One only thing can keep you down, \
For your great foul too mean; \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER, 3 \
\
\
- You'd not, to mount a bi\uc0\u383 hop's throue, \
Pay homage to the queen. \
\
\
CrHarLEs V. in his intervals of relaxation, u\uc0\u383 ed to retire to Bru\u383 \u383 els: He was a prince curious. \
to know the \uc0\u383 entiments of his meane\u383 t \u383 ubjects concerning him\u383 elf, and his admini\u383 tration; therefore \
\
\
o\uc0\u383 ten went out incog. and mixed him\u383 elf in \u383 uch \
\
\
companies and conver\uc0\u383 ation as he thought proper. \
One night his boot requiring immediate mending, \
he was directed to a cobler: unluckily it happened. to be St. Cri\uc0\u383 pin's holiday; and, in\u383 tead offind- \
ing the cobler inclined for work, he was in the \
height of his jollity among his acquaintance. The \
emperor acquainted him what he wanted, and offered himahand\uc0\u383 ome gratuity. * What! friend, \
\uc0\u383 ays the fellow, do you know no better than to a\u383 k \
any of our Craft to work on St. Cri\uc0\u383 pin? was it \
Charles the V. him\uc0\u383 elf, I'd nct do a \u383 titch for \
him now\'97but if you'll come in, and drink St. \
Cri\uc0\u383 pin, do, and welcome, we are as merry as the \
emperor can be,\'94 The fovercign accepted his offer: but while he was contempla ting on their rude \
\
\
plea\uc0\u383 ure, in\u383 tead of joining in it, the jovial ho\u383 t \
thus accofts him: \'93What, I \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 e you are \u383 ome \
courtier, politician or other by that contemplative \
phiz;z nay, by your long no\uc0\u383 e you may be a ba\u383 - \
tard of the emperor's; but be who or what you \
will, you're heartily welcome\'97drinkabout\'97here's \
Charles the fi\uc0\u383 th's health.\'94 Then you love Charles \
the fifth replied the emperor? \'a9 Love him! (fays \
the \uc0\u383 on of Cri\u383 pin) ay, ay, I love his long no\u383 e\u383 hip \
well enough; but I \uc0\u383 hould love him much more, \
would he but tax us a little le\uc0\u383 s\'97but what the de- \
vil have we to do with politics, round with the\
\
gla\uc0\u383 \u383 es, and merry be our hearts.\'94 After a \u383 hort \
ttay, the emperor took his leave, and thanked the \
cobler for his ho\uc0\u383 pitable reception. That (cried \
he) you are welcome to, but I would not to-day \
have di\uc0\u383 honoured St. Cri\u383 pin to have worked for \
the emperor.\'94 Charles, plea\uc0\u383 ed with the hone\u383 t \
good-nature and humour of the fellow, \uc0\u383 ent for \
him next morning to court. You mu\uc0\u383 t imagine \
his \uc0\u383 urpri\u383 e to \u383 ee -and hear his late gue\u383 t was his \
\uc0\u383 overeign : he feared. his joke on his long no\u383 e \
mult be puni\uc0\u383 hed with death. The emperor thanked him for his ho\u383 pitality, and, as a reward for it, \
bid him a\uc0\u383 k for what he mo\u383 t de\u383 ired, and take \
the whole night to \uc0\u383 ettle his furpri\u383 e and his ambition. Next dayhe appeared, and reque\u383 ted, that \
for the future the coblers of Flanders might bear \
for theirarms a boat, with the emperor's crown upon it. That reque\uc0\u383 t was granted, and as his ambition was \u383 o moderate, the emperor bid him make \
\
\
another. If (fays he) I am to have my utmo\uc0\u383 t \
wi\uc0\u383 hes, command, that for the future the company of coblers \u383 hall take place of the company of \
\uc0\u383 hoe-makers.\'93 It was accordingly \u383 o ordained, \
and to this day there is to be \uc0\u383 een a chapel in \
Flanders, adorned round with a boot and imperial \
crown on it, and in all proce\uc0\u383 \u383 ions the company of \
coblers take place of the company of \uc0\u383 hoe-makers. \
\
Ix a vi\uc0\u383 it queen Elizabeth made to the famous \
lord chancellor Bacon, at a \uc0\u383 mall country feat, \
which - he had built for him\uc0\u383 elf before his prefer- \
ment, The a\uc0\u383 ked him, How it came that he ma anshim\u383 elf \u383 o \u383 mail a hou\u383 e? It is not I, madam, ans\u383 wered he, who have made my hou\u383 e too \u383 mall for \
my\uc0\u383 elf, but your maje\u383 ty, who have made me foo \
the for my hou\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
\
\
- Mr. Jeremy White, one of Oliver Cromwell's \
dome\uc0\u383 tic chaplains, a \u383 prightly man, and one ofthe \
chief wits of the court, was \uc0\u383 o ambitious as to \
make his addre\uc0\u383 \u383 es to Oliver's younge\u383 t daughter, \
the lady Frances. The young lady did not di\uc0\u383 eorage him; but in \u383 o religious a court this gallan- \
try could not be carried on without being taken notice of. The Protector was told of it, and was \
much concerned thereat: he ordered the per\uc0\u383 on \
who told him to keep a \uc0\u383 trict look out, promi\u383 ing, \
\
\
if he could give him any \uc0\u383 ub\u383 tantial proofs, he \
\
\
\uc0\u383 hould be well rewarded, and White \u383 everely puni\u383 hed. The \u383 py followed his bu\u383 ine\u383 s fo clo\u383 e, \
that in a little time he dogged Jerry White, as he \
was generally called, to the lady's chamber, and \
ran immediately to the Protector to acquaint him \
that they were together. Oliver, in a rage, ha\uc0\u383 tened to the chamber; and, going in ha\u383 tily, found \
\
\
Jerry on his knees, either ki\uc0\u383 \u383 ing the lady's hand, \
or having ju\uc0\u383 t ki\u383 \u383 ed it. Cromwell in a fury a\u383 ked what was the meaning of that po\u383 ture before \
his r Frank ? White, with a great deal of \
pre\uc0\u383 ence of mind, \u383 aid, May it pleafe your highne\u383 s! I have a long time courted that young gentlewoman there, my. lady's woman, and cannot \
prevail: I was therefore humbly praying her lady\uc0\u383 hip to intercede for me. Fhe protector, turning \
to the young woman, cried, What's the meaning \
of this, hu\uc0\u383 \u383 y? why do you refu\u383 e the honour Mr. \
White would do you? he is my friend, and I expect you \uc0\u383 hould treat him as \u383 uch. My lady's woman, who de\u383 ired nothing mere, with a very tow \
\
\
curt\uc0\u383 y, replied, If Mr. White intends me that ho- \
\
\
nour, I \uc0\u383 hall nct be again\u383 t him. Say'\u383 t thou fo, \
my la\uc0\u383 s, cried Cromwell? Call * this bufine\u383 s \u383 hall be done pre\u383 ently, before I go out ofthe \
room. Mr. White was gone too far to go back; \
his brother - par\uc0\u383 on came; Jerry and my lady's wo- \
man were married in the pre\uc0\u383 ence of the Protector, \
who gave her five hundred pounds for her portion, \
which, with the money \uc0\u383 he had \u383 aved before, made \
Mr. White ealy in his circum\uc0\u383 tances,\'94 except that \
he never loved his wife, nor \uc0\u383 he him, mough way \
lived together near fifty years afterwards, \
\
Ma. Thomas Fuller, a man admired for his wits \
but who\uc0\u383 e great fault was, that he would rather lo\u383 e \
his friend than his je\uc0\u383 t, having made \u383 ome ver\u383 es \
upon a \uc0\u383 colding wife, Dr. Cou\u383 ins, his patron, and \
benefactor, hearing them repeated, de\uc0\u383 ired Mr; \
Fuller to oblige him with a copy of them; to whom \
he very imprudently, tho' wittily replied, 'Tas \
needle\uc0\u383 s to give one day to be at the \
prime mini\uc0\u383 ter s levee, when Garnet upon Job, a \
\
book dedicated to the duke of N\'97\'97ey happened \
to lie in the window. Before his grace made his \
appearance, his lord\uc0\u383 hip had time enough to am u\u383 e \
\
him\uc0\u383 elf with the book, and when the duke enter'd, \
he found him reading in it, Veil, my lord, \uc0\u383 aid his \
Grace, What is your opinion of that book? In any \
other place L \uc0\u383 hould not think much of it, replied his \
lord\uc0\u383 hip; but here in your Grace's levee, I think it \
one of the be\uc0\u383 t books in the world. Te \
_ "TRERE is a \uc0\u383 tory told of Mr, Waller, the poet, \
that does honour to his \uc0\u383 incerity. King James II. \
having ordered Mr. Waller to attend him one afternoon; when he came, the king carried him into \
his clo\uc0\u383 et, and there a\u383 k'd him, how he liked \u383 uch \
2 picture. Sir, \uc0\u383 ays Mr. Waller, my eyesare dim, \
\
and I know not who\uc0\u383 e it is. The kingan\u383 wercd, it is \
the prince\uc0\u383 s of Orange. I think, \u383 ays Waller, \u383 he is \
like the greate\uc0\u383 t woman in the world. Whom do you- \
call \uc0\u383 o ? \u383 aid the king. Queen Elizabeth, replied \
\
\
the other. I wonder, Mr. Waller, faid the king, \
\
\
that you \uc0\u383 hould think \u383 o; and added, e owed her \
greatne\uc0\u383 s to her council, whichwas indeed \'e0 wi\u383 e one. \
And, fir, faid Mr. Ong did eu ever know achu\uc0\u383 e a wi\u383 e one? \
\
A 'cERTAIN Kenti\uc0\u383 h nobleman being in company with \u383 ome Scotch officers, was bragging of the \
\uc0\u383 it vation of his villa, and the plea\u383 antne\u383 s of the \
country in general; but above all, in\uc0\u383 i\u383 ted upon his \
peculiar happine\uc0\u383 s (as he had a mu\u383 ical ear) in ha- \
ving \uc0\u383 uch a multitude of nightingales about him. \
Nightingales ? \uc0\u383 ays a bonny Scot, we have an infinityof them near Edinburgh\'97Sir, replies my lord, \
I thought tho\uc0\u383 e birds had never reached\u383 ofar north: \
\
\
pray, what kind of a thing is a nightingale? My \
\
\
lord, rejoins the Scot\uc0\u383 man, it is a boot as bug as a \'a9 \
pudgeon, and has a head like a cat, \
whoo, whoo. . \
\
A HIGHWAYMAN pre\uc0\u383 enting a blunderbu\u383 s to \
a gentleman in a chariot, demanded his mcney \
with the u\uc0\u383 ual compliment; the gentleman readily \
furrenlered his pur\uc0\u383 e, containing about \u383 ixty guineas, and told the highwayman, that for his own \
\uc0\u383 afety, he had better put the robbery upon the foottng of an exchange, by \u383 elling him the blunderbu\u383 s for what he had ju\u383 t now taken from him, \
With all my heart, \uc0\u383 ays the highwayman; and gave \
it to the gentleman, who in\uc0\u383 tantly turned themuzzle towards him, and told him, if he did not redeliver his pur\u383 e, he would \u383 hoot. him. That yu may \
if you can, replied the highwayman, for\
you it is not loaded; and rode off "_\'97 coolly wich \
his booty. \
\
IN admiral Hawke's la\uc0\u383 t engagement with the \
French, a \uc0\u383 ailor on board one of the \u383 hips had a leg \
thot off, whereupon one of his me\uc0\u383 s-mates took \
him dovn tothe \uc0\u383 urgeon, and at the \u383 ame time took \
his leg off the deck, and put it under his arm; he \
was no \uc0\u383 ooner brought down, but another of his \
me\uc0\u383 s mates began, \u383 haking his head, and telling \
him, he was very \uc0\u383 orry he had lo\u383 t hisleg. That's \
a d\'97m'd lye, ye \uc0\u383 on of a b\'97h, reply'd he, for fee \
here, I have got it under my arm. \
\
A FRENCH bcau coming to a fine inn in Law \
don, calls for apennyworth of bread, a pennyworth \
of chee\uc0\u383 e, and a pennyworth of beer, then goes to \
bed; and in the morning, calling for about the \
lame quantity for his breakfa\uc0\u383 t, demanded what was \
to pay. The man of the hou\uc0\u383 e, \u383 eeing he made \
a genteel appearance, makes a rea\uc0\u383 onable bill of \
ren \uc0\u383 hillings, and carries it into mon\u383 ieur, who having peru\u383 ed it, told him, 'twas a great deal money; \
but if you mu\uc0\u383 t have ten \u383 hilling, ten \u383 hilling you \
Hall have; tho' the hou\uc0\u383 e be much troubled with \
rats, that I had no \uc0\u383 leep to night. The inn-keeper told him, what he \u383 aid was true, and would give \
anythingto get rid of them; which the Frenchman, \
for a bottle of wine, undertook to cure; and, after \
drinking the wine, now, \uc0\u383 ays he, call all de rats into dis room, and make dem every one a bill of ten \
 fhillings, and dey never trouble your hou\uc0\u383 e again \
while dey live. \
\
An Engli\uc0\u383 h vef\u383 el meeting one from Ireland, hanled it, and de\u383 ired to know what \u383 he, was laden \
with: timber and fruit, an\uc0\u383 wered the ma\u383 ter: timber and fruit? reply*d the other: Ay, an? \
birch-breoms' and potatoes. \
\
A couPLE of ju\uc0\u383 tices, walking in the city of \
York, e\uc0\u383 pied a woman in a corner, relieving nature from the pre\u383 \u383 ure of a burden which \u383 he could \
not contain any longer: one of them eried out, \
pointing to the \uc0\u383 quartith fair, brother, brother, \
what a \uc0\u383 hameful thing, what a bea\u383 tly thing this is! \
I vow, this is matter that de\uc0\u383 erves to be looked into. The other, being a more fen\u383 ible man, prythee, brother, an\u383 wered he, do you look into it \
then: but for my part, / am \uc0\u383 atisfied with the \u383 mell. \
\
A JURY being \uc0\u383 ummoned to attend the coroner of Middle\u383 ex to fit on the body of a woman \
who had hanged her\uc0\u383 elf; an Iri\u383 hman going by, \
on \uc0\u383 eeing them enter the hou\u383 e, a\u383 ked, what was \
the matter? and being told, they were going to fit \
on the dead body, Arrah now, \uc0\u383 ays he, then Pf \
be dd if. \uc0\u383 o many don't \u383 queeze her to death. \
\
As Dean Swift was crofling over the Ferry in \
Dublin, turning him\uc0\u383 elf from the pa\u383 \u383 engers in the: \
\{tern of the boat, he addre\uc0\u383 \u383 eda poor man near him. \
Well, friend, what profe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion are you of? I am a \
taylor, fir, an\uc0\u383 wered the other, not knowing the \
Dean; Are you married, \uc0\u383 aid Swift? yes, fir, re. \
plied ti e taylor; and who wears the breeches? \uc0\u383 aick \
the dean. My A\'97\uc0\u383 e, an\u383 wered the other. \
\
A YOUNG woman, living with an old lady, \
could never do any thing for her, but \uc0\u383 he would \
\
\
find fault with it, to whom the girFu\uc0\u383 ed to cry,\
\
\
dear, Madam, you are fo curious penurious, there \
is no \uc0\u383 uch a thing as plea\u383 ing ye. The woman \
was determined to know the meaning of curious \
penurious; and going to St. Paul's \uc0\u383 chool, told one \
of the boys, the would give him fix-yence to tell \
\
\
it her. Why, replied he, curious penuricus \
\
\
zs Latin; and the Englih ts, you hatehet face old \
bitch, will ye eat any grains. \'97 The old woman \
went home red hot with her knowledge, and immediately fell upon the girl. PH curious penurious ye for an impudent whore. Ye hatched- \
\
\
old bitch, will ye eat any grains. What, \
\
\
did ye think I \uc0\u383 hould never learn Latin, 9 a pox \
to ye, for a brazen - face bitch! \
\
THREE young fellows meeting with a country \
girl, and thinking to have \uc0\u383 ome fun with her, in\u383 i\u383 ted on her going with them to the tavern, telling \
\
\
her they were her cou\uc0\u383 ins, and began drinking to \
\
\
her: but when it came to her turn to drink, \uc0\u383 he \
alked their names: which the fir\uc0\u383 t an\u383 wered his \
name was Lane, the \uc0\u383 econd his name was Wall, \
and the third \uc0\u383 aid his name was Mo\u383 s : whereupon \
taking her gla\uc0\u383 s, \u383 he \u383 aid, as I was going up a lane, I \
\uc0\u383 !h\'97tagainit a wall, and wipt my here's to ye, cou\u383 ins all: and then left n to \
pay the reckoning. | \
\
A GRACELESS: \uc0\u383 on afked his notes; who was \
pretty antient, what \uc0\u383 he did out of her grave fo \
long? wait to read your dying \uc0\u383 peech, an\u383 wered \
the mother. 2 \
\
A FaM9Us wit of France coming to pay his \
\
\
court to Lewis XIV. one at Ver\uc0\u383 ailles meeting him, \
\
\
rare news for you, \uc0\u383 ays he, the king has made you. \
governor over his hogs and monkies. Then, \uc0\u383 aid \
the wit, pray, fir, prepare your\uc0\u383 elf to obey my commans, for you are one of my \u383 ubjects. _ \
An Iri\uc0\u383 hman was a\u383 ked, whether he, or his \
brother; were oldeft? I am olde\uc0\u383 t, \u383 aid he, but it \
my brother lives three years longer, we hall be \
both of an age. \
\
\
\
A warM di\uc0\u383 pute aro\u383 e between \u383 ome pari\u383 h cfficers at a meeting where Mr. Na\u383 h was pre\u383 ent, a- \
\
\
bout repairing the workhou\uc0\u383 e; when a man, who \
\
\
was born in it, but had acquired a good fortune in \
the world, and had forgot him\uc0\u383 elf, \u383 trenuou\u383 l - oppo\u383 ed the laying out any money on that account, \
\uc0\u383 aying, it was habitab!e, and that was \u383 ufficient. \
Don't be po\uc0\u383 itive, my friend, \u383 ays Nath, h buiiding is trangely run to ruin \u383 ince yaur mol h bay in \
there. ; \
WHEN drams were more in vogue than they \
are at pre\uc0\u383 ent; a gentleman called for a gla\u383 s of brandy at the Smyrna, becau\u383 e, he \u383 aid, he was very hot. \
\
\
Bring me one, waiter, \uc0\u383 ays another, \u383 or I am very \
cold. It is a flrange thing, \uc0\u383 ays Na\u383 h, that people- \
\
can't find an excu\uc0\u383 e for their follies, without in\u383 ult - \
ing the good \uc0\u383 en\u383 e of the company. Here, bring me \
a dram, boy, for I like it. \
\
A DROLL quaker, who was in years, being in \
the coffee-hou\uc0\u383 e when the bells rang, a\u383 ked who was \
\
\
come to town? a man at one of the tables \uc0\u383 aid it \
\
\
was the devil; then, fays the quaker, he may ki\uc0\u383 s \
my back\uc0\u383 ide. Friend, \u383 ays Na\u383 h, you \u383 eem to be a \
\
\
\uc0\u383 en\u383 ible man; tut I don't think it is altogether 5 \
prudent in you to makeenemtes at your time of life. \
\
\
A CAPTAIN of a man of war had gota circle \
round him in one of the rooms at Bath, whom he \
was entertaining with \uc0\u383 ome wonderful ph\'e6nomenon \
which he had \uc0\u383 een at \u383 ea; when Icoking round, \
\
\
and perceiving Na\uc0\u383 h laugh, he grew angry, and. \
faid he did not believe him, My, fir, \uc0\u383 ays Na\u383 h, \
did you \uc0\u383 ee it? Yes, I did, an\u383 wered thegentlemen.. \
Well, if you \uc0\u383 aw it, \u383 ays Na\u383 h, Iwill believe it; but\'94 \
\
\
4 would not if I had \uc0\u383 een it my\u383 elf. \
\
\
Tar1s gentleman, however, \uc0\u383 oon after returned \
the compliment; for Na\uc0\u383 h was one of tho\u383 e who \
\uc0\u383 hot with along bow, or, in other words, paid but \
\
little regard to truth, in his \uc0\u383 allies of wit and humour; and having told a mo\u383 t confounded large \
\uc0\u383 tory, the captain gave a hem: upon which Nath \
made up to him; And \uc0\u383 o, captain, \u383 ays he, you \
won't believe this *\'97WWhy, yes, \uc0\u383 ays the captain, / \
will, Na\uc0\u383 h, to oblige you; but I would not believe \
fuch ane was damn d lie for any man upon the face of \
the earth. | \
\
A ERIEND of Mr. Na\uc0\u383 h's, Fe had entered his \
\
\
bummed . \
\
\
\uc0\u383 on at the temple to \u383 tudy the law, in order to fit him : \
\
for the bar, was complaining to Mr. Na\uc0\u383 h of his \u383 on's 1 \
inattention to his \uc0\u383 tudies, and of his irregularities, ; \
\uc0\u383 aying, that in\u383 tead of minding his Eu\u383 ine\u383 s, he was \\ \
continually dancing to Ranelagb, and other places r \
\
of diver\uc0\u383 ion. It appears then, (\u383 ays Na\u383 h,) that t \
\
your \uc0\u383 on' minds no law but Rane- law. \
\
A N0BLEMAN, remarkable for his good- nature; I \
\
and affability, ordering his \uc0\u383 ervant pretty late at 2 \
\
| night to go with a me\uc0\u383 \u383 age a con\u383 iderable di\u383 tance t \
from the place where he was then in company; t \
\
the fellow did not recerve his ma\uc0\u383 ter's commands a \
\
| with that chearfulne\uc0\u383 s he ought. The nobleman, t \
| after the man had left the room, a\uc0\u383 ked Mr. Na\u383 h, 1 \
| whether be did not thinkhis footman \uc0\u383 zemed "onda C \
what \uc0\u383 ulky at receiving his orders, and what could t] \
\
be the meaning of it? My lord, \uc0\u383 ays Nath, you are is \
\
a good ma\uc0\u383 ter to your \u383 ervants, and as no body can tl \
\
do too much for. a goad ma\uc0\u383 ter, yaur man, 1 \u383 uppo\u383 e, 'V \
\
is determined he never will. n \
ANOTHER time, Mr. Na\uc0\u383 h, \u383 olliciting \u383 ub\u383 erip- u \
\
\
tions among the gentlemen at Morgan's coffeehou\uc0\u383 e at Bath, met with very good \u383 ucce\u383 s from all \
but one gentleman, wi ab\uc0\u383 olutely refu\u383 ed to give \
any thing. However, ju\uc0\u383 t as the gentleman was \
going out of the coffee-room, Mr. Na\uc0\u383 h called out \
to him in a loud voice, I wi\uc0\u383 h you \u383 afe home, fir; \
but remember, if you \uc0\u383 hould chance to lo\u383 e any thing \
by the way, you did nat draw your pur\uc0\u383 e-\u383 trings \
here; which occa\uc0\u383 ioninga laugh, put the gentleman \
to the blu\uc0\u383 h: however, he turned back with a jocular air, and damning Na\u383 h for the bolde\u383 t beggar \
he ever met with in his life, gave him five guineas. \
\
DURING the protector\uc0\u383 hip of Oliver Cromwell, \
a de\uc0\u383 ign was formed for re-e\u383 tabli\u383 hing the Jews \
in this kingdom, with full liberty to carry ontrade, \
and exerci\uc0\u383 e their religion; but tho? this affair met \
with violent oppo\uc0\u383 ition from the heads of the diffe- \
rent \uc0\u383 ectaries, yet Oliver \u383 o far carried his point as \
to encourage a \uc0\u383 mall body of them to \u383 ettle intheir \
old quarter, under the direction of Mana\uc0\u383 \u383 eth Ben I\u383 rael, a great rabbi, who \u383 oon built a \u383 ynagogue, \
and publickly performed divine wor\uc0\u383 hip. The in- \
telligence which the protector received, from time \
to time, by means of the exten\uc0\u383 ive corre\u383 pondence \
and clo\uc0\u383 e amity every where maintained throughout \
the univer\uc0\u383 e among the \u383 cattered remains of the \
Jewi\uc0\u383 h nation, contributed not a little to the \u383 uc- \
ce\uc0\u383 s of his enterpri\u383 es abroad, and particularly to \
that of his naval expeditions; an in\uc0\u383 tance of which \
is \uc0\u383 omewhere upon record, and thus related: As \
the earl of Orrery was once walking with Cromwell in one of the galleries at Whitehall, a man almo\uc0\u383 t in rags appeared in view; upon which Crom- \
well immediately left the carl, and took that per\uc0\u383 on \
\
\
\
\
with him into his clo\uc0\u383 et, who told him of a great \
\uc0\u383 um of money that the Sr aniards were \u383 ending over in a Dutch man of war, to pay their army in \
Flanders; and al\uc0\u383 o the very part of the hip where \
the money was repo\uc0\u383 ited. The protector then immediately \u383 ent an expre\u383 s to Smith (afterwards Sir \
Jeremy Smith) who lay in the Downs, informing \
\
\
him that within a day or two \uc0\u383 uch a Dutch \u383 hip \
\
\
would pa\uc0\u383 s the channel, which he mu\u383 t \u383 earch for \
the Spani\uc0\u383 h money. Accordingly, when the \u383 hip \
\
pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed by Dover, Smith \u383 ent, and demanded leave \
\
\
to \uc0\u383 earch her. The Dutch captain return'd, That \
\
\
none but his ma\uc0\u383 ters \u383 hould \u383 earch him. Upon which \
\
\
Smith \uc0\u383 ent him word again, that he had \u383 et up an \
hour-gla\uc0\u383 s,and if he did not \u383 ubmit to the \u383 earch beFore it was run out, he would finkhim. The Dutch- \
man \uc0\u383 eeing it was in vain to contend with \u383 uperior \
\
\
force, \uc0\u383 ubmitted in time; and \u383 o all the money \
\
\
was found. And the next time Cromwell \uc0\u383 aw the \
lord Orrery, he told him, he hal his intelligence \
from that \uc0\u383 eemingly forlorn Jeu he \u383 aw him go to \
fome days before. \
\
Soo after the battle of Oudenarde, the dutche\uc0\u383 s of Marlborough made a tour to Flanders, under \
\
\
pretence of complimenting the duke on that victory, but in fact to inform him of the cabals of. his \
enemies, which it was not \uc0\u383 afe toentru\u383 ton paper. \
Her grace landed at Dunkirk, where \uc0\u383 he lay. all \
night; and in the morning, her thoughts being in- \
tent, perhaps, upon more important concerns, tho? \
me had given a great deal of trouble in the inn, \
yet \uc0\u383 he went away and forgot the u\u383 ual pre\u383 ent to \
the chambermaid. The girl, who interpreted this \
ueglect to her grace's want of genero\uc0\u383 ity, thought \
\
\
\
of an expedient to make her\uc0\u383 elf amends; and with \
this view \uc0\u383 he purcha\u383 ed: a number of phials, and \
\
then filling them, carefully cork'd them up, and \
\
\uc0\u383 ealed them; thisdone, \u383 he cau\u383 ed itto be rumour- \
ed abroad that \uc0\u383 he had a quantity of the dutche\u383 s \
of Marlborough's eye-water, which her grace, at \
\
her departure, had put into her hands to fell.\'94 It \
\
was in reality the dutche\uc0\u383 s of -Mariborough's water \
\
that filled the -bottles, and the humour \uc0\u383 ucceeded \
to the girl's with; the eye-water was bought for \
the novelty by rich and poor, and the cures it per- \
formed were \uc0\u383 o wonderful, that the fame of its \
virtues reached the dutche\uc0\u383 s at the Engli\u383 h camp. \
\
Her grace recollected her omi\uc0\u383 hon, and was not a \
little nettled at the wench's. \uc0\u383 tratagem, but could \
not then help it. In her return home however, \
\uc0\u383 he lay again at the \u383 ame inn; and as the wench \
was putting her to bed at night, Child, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, 7 \
\
hear you have a famous eye-water to \uc0\u383 ell; I have a \
mind to be a purcha\uc0\u383 er. The girl, quite confound- \
ed and ready to fink, faintly \uc0\u383 aid, it was all di\u383 po- \
\uc0\u383 ed of. What quantity might you have of it, \u383 aid \
the dutche\uc0\u383 s? Only a few dszens, replied the girl. \
Well, \uc0\u383 aid the dutche\u383 s, prepare your bottles, and \
you now may have a larger quantity of the genuine \
\uc0\u383 ort. The girl was mi\u383 erably perplexed, and could \
not tell what to \uc0\u383 ay; but fell into tears, and drop- \
ping upon her knees confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed herindi\u383 cretion, and \
humbly implor'd her grace's forgivene\uc0\u383 s, promi\u383 ing \
never to offend again in thelikemanner; Nay, but \
indeed, child, \uc0\u383 aid her grace, you mu\u383 t make up \u383 ome- \
\
\
for me, for I have heard an excellent character Mita \
favereign virtues. Being a\uc0\u383 \u383 ured her grace was in \
\
\
earne\uc0\u383 t, the girl reply'd, /he \u383 hould be obey'd; Her \
\
\
\
' grace's intention was, to prevent her eye - water be- \
\
\
ing any more hawk'daboutin Dunkirk; and there- \
fore in the morning \uc0\u383 he ordered her young doctre\u383 s \
in her own pre\uc0\u383 ence to bottle every drop of it, to \
cork it up \uc0\u383 afely, and \u383 eal it, as \u383 he had done the \
\
\
former; by which \uc0\u383 he di\u383 covered that the girl had \
\
\
actually procured her grace's arms to her new no- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 trum, a circum\u383 tance ihe had not before dreamt of; \
\
\
Well, my dear, \uc0\u383 aid the dutche\u383 s, / find you're a \
mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s of your trade; you make no \u383 eruple to coun- \
terfeit a \uc0\u383 eal. Madam, \u383 aid the girl, you dropt \
the \uc0\u383 eal in the room, and that put itintomy head. \
And what might you gain, \uc0\u383 aid her grace, by \
your la\uc0\u383 t \u383 upply? Fifty livres, reply'd the girl. \
Very well, \uc0\u383 aid the dutche\u383 s; plea\u383 e to reflore the \
\uc0\u383 eal, and there is double that \u383 um for you; putting \
five Louis d'Ors in her hand; adding with a \uc0\u383 tern \
look, and a \uc0\u383 evere tone af voice, Beware of coun- \
terfeits, hu\uc0\u383 \u383 ey. \
\
OLD Ter, who is remarkable 8 mention ind \
and drol! happened one day to be alone at the \
Fla\uc0\u383 k at Ham\u383 tead, in veni\u383 on- time, when the \
Cordwainer's company kept their annual fea\uc0\u383 t there. \
Dyer ob\uc0\u383 erved two glorious hanches roa\u383 ting at the \
fire, and made it his bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s to learn who they \
\
\
were for. Being told, for the cordwainer's-compa-. \
\
\
ny, he determined to dine with them. He knew \
it was the cu\uc0\u383 tom upon tho\u383 e occatrons for every \
member to bring his friend, and con\uc0\u383 equently that \
\uc0\u383 everal, as well as him\u383 elf, would be ftrangers toall \
but one in the company, and that que\uc0\u383 tions. are ne- \
\
\
ver a\uc0\u383 ked, when once admittance is obtained and \
\
\
people are \uc0\u383 eated z- he therefore watched his oppor- \
tunity when dinner went up, and \uc0\u383 eated him\u383 elf. as \
mong the re\uc0\u383 t as near as he could to one of the \
\
\
\
\
\
hanches, where he did not fail to play his part. \
He was very plea\uc0\u383 ant and chearful, and tho\u383 e that \
\uc0\u383 at next him were highly diverted; no exceptions \
were taken, and all pa\uc0\u383 s'd off as he had imagined. \
After dinner, when the bottle and \uc0\u383 ong began to \
move bri\uc0\u383 kly round, he \u383 ung in his turn, and was \
much applauded. But when the time came that \
he thought of departing, he \uc0\u383 hifted his \u383 eat, and \
placing him\uc0\u383 elf next the door, he began a \u383 tory. \
He had already drawn the attention of the compa- \
ny upon him by his uncommon humour; \uc0\u383 o, u- \
pon the word Story all were filent. Gentlemen, \
iaid he, Iam always plea\uc0\u383 ed when I have an oppor- \
tunity of remarking the flouri\uc0\u383 hing condition of \
trade; I remember a wonderful alteration for the \
better in this very company of yours within the\uc0\u383 e \
forty years, and I think I can give you a remarka- \
ble in\uc0\u383 tance of it. When I was a young fellow, \
continued Dyer gravely, I was but low inthe world \
my\uc0\u383 elf; and I obferved that the neare\u383 t way to \
wealth was through the road of frugality; and \
therefore I pitched upon a chop-hou\uc0\u383 e in Grub- \
\uc0\u383 treet, where I could dine for two-pence. 'The \
mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s of the hou\u383 e was remarkably neat and ci- \
vil, particularly to tho\uc0\u383 e who were her con\u383 tant \
cu\uc0\u383 tomers; and the room where wedined was, by \
means of a curtain, or more properly a blanket, \
hung upon a rod, partitioned off into two divi\uc0\u383 ions, \
the inner, and the outer; the inner divi\uc0\u383 ion the \
good woman kept for the better \uc0\u383 ort of folks, of \
whom I had the honour to be accounted one, and \
the outer was for the ca\uc0\u383 ual and ordinary fort. Tt \
happened one day, however, as I was drawing the \
blanket to go in as u\uc0\u383 ual, the mi\u383 tre\u383 s of the hou\u383 e \
pulled me ha\uc0\u383 tily by the coat, and whifper'd in mp \
\
\
\
\
\
ear, You mu\uc0\u383 t not go in there to-day, fir \'97\'97IWhy fs, \
\uc0\u383 aid I in \u383 ome heat? I beg your pardon, fir, \u383 aid \
\
\
the woman, but indeed you can't be admitted, \
What the devil's the matter that I can't be admitted, \
faid I \uc0\u383 waggering? Why, \u383 aid the woman with joy \
in her countenance, the ma\uc0\u383 ter and wardens of the \
Cordwainers-company do me the honour to dine with \
me to-day, and I mu\uc0\u383 t keep my be\u383 t parlour empty \
fer their wor\uc0\u383 hips reception. I thought it indeed \
but decent to give place to that worthy body, and \
\uc0\u383 o was pacify'd The company upon hearing \
this \uc0\u383 tory beganto lay their heads together, to know \
who this gentleman was; which Dyer 3 815 1 \
took that opportunity to \uc0\u383 lip away. \
\
WHEN the great duke of Marlborough com- \
manded in Flanders, a Jew, concerned in the con- \
tract for furni\uc0\u383 hing bread to the army there, made \
him an annual pre\uc0\u383 ent of between 5 and 60001. \
The queen had be\uc0\u383 ides ordered him 10,0001. a year \
to \uc0\u383 upport his dignity, and to enable him to pro- \
cure intelligence; and on the \uc0\u383 ame account her \
maje\uc0\u383 ty had i\u383 \u383 ued out a warrant for him to receive \
two and a half per cent. out of the pay of the fo- \
reign troops, as was the practice in K. William's \
war, which amounted to 1 5o000l. more, in all a- \
bout 30,0001. a-year. But upon the change of \
the mini\uc0\u383 try, when things were carried to extremi- \
ties, and this great man was dive\uc0\u383 ted of his com- \
mand by the queen's own letter, a charge was \
brought again\uc0\u383 t him in parliament for the embez- \
zlement of \uc0\u383 o much public money as the Jew's pre- \
\uc0\u383 ent, and the deduction from the pay of the fo- \
reign troops annually amounted to. And tho\'94 he \
made 1t appear that the whole \uc0\u383 um was leis by \
200001. a- year than in the former war had been \
\
\
\
\
allowed K. William for the\uc0\u383 ame \u383 ervice; andthat \
by di\uc0\u383 po\u383 ing of it properly he had procured fo: good \
intelligence, as never once to be \uc0\u383 urpri\u383 ed, nor any \
party he ever \uc0\u383 ent out intercepted or cut off; nay, \
that all his de\uc0\u383 igns had been \u383 o well concerted, thro? \
the faith of his intelligence, that he had never mi\uc0\u383 - \
carried in any one of them; yet his enemies were \
\uc0\u383 uffered to prevail, the hou\u383 e cen\u383 ured the receipt \
of the Jew's money as illegal, and her maje\uc0\u383 ty was \
prevailed upon to \uc0\u383 end an order to the attorney- ge- \
neral to pro\uc0\u383 ecute him for the 15,0001. that was \
deducted yearly out of the payof the foreign troops, \
tho\'94 he was authori\uc0\u383 ed by her own warrant to re- \
ceive it. Such was the behaviour of a Hou\uc0\u383 e of \
Commons to a man who had carried the military \
glory of the Engli\uc0\u383 h nation to a higher pitch than \
any general had ever done before him. \
\
THE prince of Conti being highly plea\uc0\u383 ed with \
the intrepid behaviour of a grenadier at the \uc0\u383 iege \
of Phillip\uc0\u383 burgh, in 1734, threw him his pur\u383 e, \
excu\uc0\u383 ing the \u383 mallne\u383 s of the \u383 um it contain'd, as \
being too poor a reward for his courage. Next \
morning the grenadier went to the prince with a \
couple of diamond rings and other jewels of con- \
\uc0\u383 iderable value. Sir, \u383 aid he, the gold I found in \
your pur\uc0\u383 e I \u383 uppo\u383 e your highne\u383 s intended me; but \
the\uc0\u383 e I bring back to you as having no claim tothem. \
You have, \uc0\u383 oldier, an\u383 wered the prince, doubly de- \
\uc0\u383 erded them by yeur bravery, ani by yeur bonefty 5 \
therefore they are yours. \
\
Tax old earl of Derby, who lived in the reigns \
of James and Charles I. wore \uc0\u383 uch plain apparel \
that he could not be di\uc0\u383 tgui\u383 ned by his garb from \
the better \uc0\u383 ort of farmers; and coming to court in \
his ordinary habit, was denied entrance into the \
\
\
| privy-chamber by afine-dre\uc0\u383 s'd Scot, who told him, \
\
\
that was no place for plowmen; that none came \
there but gentlemen, or \uc0\u383 uch as dre\u383 \u383 ed like gentle- \
men. The earl replied, he wore the cloaths he u- \
\uc0\u383 ed to wear, and if the Scots did\u383 o they'd make but \
a mean figure in the Engli\uc0\u383 h court. The king \
hearing a di\uc0\u383 pute at the chamber-door came out to \
know what occa\uc0\u383 ioned it; to whom the earl \u383 aid, \
\
\
Nothing, my liege, but your countrymen having left \
\
\
their manners and their rags behind them in Scot- \
land, neither know them\uc0\u383 elues, nor their betters. \
The king being angry at the affront offered to \uc0\u383 o \
great a man, \uc0\u383 aid, my good lord Derby, I am \u383 or- \
ry for the abu\uc0\u383 e given you by my \u383 ervant; - and, to \
make your lord\uc0\u383 hip \u383 atisfaction, I will command \
him to be hanged, if your lord\uc0\u383 hip de\u383 ires it.\'93 The \
earl reply'd, that is too \uc0\u383 mall an atonement for the \
affront put upon my honour, and I expect his pu- \
ni\uc0\u383 hment \u383 hould be more examplary. Name it, \
my lord, \uc0\u383 aid the king, and it \u383 hallbe done.\'93 Why \
then, \uc0\u383 aid the earl, I defire _ maje\u383 ty would oo \
him home again. \'a9 \
\
Kine Edward IV. is \uc0\u383 aid to have been one of \
the hand\uc0\u383 ome\u383 t men of his age, tall, fair-complexi- \
\
\
oned, and of a mo\uc0\u383 t maje\u383 tic pre\u383 ence. Inthe 14th ' \
\
\
year of his reign a free benevolence being granted \
to maintain a war again\uc0\u383 t France, hepleafantly de- \
manded of a rich widow, what \uc0\u383 he would give him \
towards bearing his expences in that war. By my \
troth, quoth \uc0\u383 he, king, thou'rt: en a hon \u383 om. man, \
and for thy lovely face thou \uc0\u383 ha't ha twonty ponds. \
That \uc0\u383 um being great in tho\u383 e days, and more by \
half than the king expected, he gave the widow \
thanks, and kindly \uc0\u383 aluted her; which had fo joy- \
ous an effect upon the good old lady, that fhe re- \
\
\
\
ply'd, Neay now, king, Hi me\uc0\u383 s thau fha't ha \
\
\
twonty ponds more; and ordered it to be paid. ac- \
cordingly. \
\
\
Tu reverend Mr. Carter, late 8 of \
\
\
Bramford in Suffolk, a man of great learning and as \
\
\
great mode\uc0\u383 ty, happening to dine among others of \
\
\
the clergy at an alderman's hou\uc0\u383 e in Ip\u383 wich, one \
of the company being full of him\uc0\u383 elf, engro\u383 s'd \
the whole conver\uc0\u383 ation, and at length challenged \
any man pre\uc0\u383 ent to \u383 tart a que\u383 tion in theology or \
natural philo\uc0\u383 ophy that he could not give a full \
and \uc0\u383 atis\u383 actory an\u383 wer to. The vanity ofthe man \
\uc0\u383 truck every body dumb, which increafed his vo- \
jubility the more; when Mr. Carter thought fit to \
check his career by a fimple propo\uc0\u383 ition: Here, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, is a fi\u383 b that has always lived in \u383 alt water, \
pray tell me why it \uc0\u383 hould come out a fre\u383 h fi\u383 b, and \
not a \uc0\u383 alt one? Being unable to make any reply, \
he \uc0\u383 aid not a word more, but left the company to \
pur\uc0\u383 ue more agreeable conver\u383 ation, \
\
TRE earl of Dor\uc0\u383 et having a great defire to \
\uc0\u383 pend an evening as a private gentleman with Mr. \
Butler, author of Hudibras, prevailed with Mr. \
Fleetwood Shepherd to introduce him into his com- \
pany at a tavern which they ufed, in the character \
only of a common friend; this being done, Mr. \
Butler, while the fir\uc0\u383 t bottle was drinking, appear- \
ed very flat and heavy; at the \uc0\u383 econd bottle extreme- \
ly bri\uc0\u383 k and lively, full of wit and learning, and a \
\
\
mol: -plea\uc0\u383 ant, agreeable companion; but before \
\
\
the third bottle was finr\uc0\u383 hed, \u383 unk again into \u383 uch \
\uc0\u383 tupidity and dulne\u383 s that hardly any body could \
have believed him to be the author of a book ihat \
abounded with \uc0\u383 o much wit, learning and plea\u383 an- \
try, Next morning, Mr. Shepherd a\uc0\u383 k'd his lord- \
\
\
On, \
\uc0\u383 hip's opinion of Mr. Butler, who an\u383 wered, He is \
\
\
| like a. nine-pin, little at both ends, but great in the : \
| middle. | \'fc . \
THe vicar of Bray in Berk\uc0\u383 hire, being a papi\u383 t 0 \
\
\
under the reign of Henry VIII. and a prote\uc0\u383 tant \
under Edward VI. a papi\uc0\u383 t again under queen Ma- 8 \
\
\
\
\
\
| \
\
| ry, and a prote\uc0\u383 tant in the reign of queen Eliza- * \
li beth, was reproached as the \uc0\u383 candal of his gown, by x \
| turning from one religion to another; I cannot \
| help that, \uc0\u383 aid the vicar, but I changed my reli- * \
| gion, Tam \uc0\u383 ure Je kept true to my principle, which : \
if is, to live and die the vicar of Bray. c \
THERE is a \uc0\u383 tory of Sir William King\u383 ton, who p \
was provoit-mar\uc0\u383 hal to Edward VI. that a\u383 ter a re- , \
bellion that happened in that reign upon the altera- I \
tion of religion, he invited him\uc0\u383 elf to dine with , \
the mayor of Bodwin in Cornwal, who, thinking 1 \
him\uc0\u383 elf honoured, provided a hand\u383 ome entertain- c \
ment for him, \uc0\u383 uitable to his dignity. While din- \'a9 \
\
ner was getting ready, the provo\uc0\u383 t took Mr. Bow- \
yer a\uc0\u383 ide, (for that was the mayor's name) and , \
whi\uc0\u383 pered in his ear that there mult be an execu- 7 \
tion that afternoon, and therefore ordered him to 7 \
cau\uc0\u383 e a gallows to be \u383 et up over-again\u383 t his own f \
door. The mayor obeyed his command, and after ; \
dinner the provo\uc0\u383 t took the mayor by the hand, and k \
de\uc0\u383 ired him to lead him to the place of execution, q \
which when he beheld, he a\uc0\u383 k'd the mayor if he 8 \
thought it was \uc0\u383 trong enough. Yes, \u383 ays the mayor, i \
doubtle\uc0\u383 s it is. Well, then, \u383 aid Sir William, get 1 \
\
up and try, for it is provided for you. I hope, \uc0\u383 ir, \
faid the mayor, you are not in earne\uc0\u383 t, By my f \
troth, \uc0\u383 ays the provo\u383 t, there is no remedy, for you ; \
have been a bu\uc0\u383 y rebel. And fo, without any form : \
\
\
ef trial, cau\uc0\u383 ed the mayor to be executed. \
\
\
\
\
ANOTHER \uc0\u383 tory is told of a miller, who having \
been very active in the \uc0\u383 ame rebellion, and fearing \
the diabolical \uc0\u383 pirit of King\u383 ton, who \u383 hewed no \
mercy wherever he came, went from home, and \
told a young, \uc0\u383 tout fellow, his \u383 ervant, that if any \
gentlemen \uc0\u383 hould come and enquire for him, to \
tell them that he was the miller. The \uc0\u42835 rovo\u383 t came, \
as the miller had fore-\uc0\u383 een, and the \u383 ervant \u383 aid as \
he was ordered; upon which the provo\uc0\u383 t command- \
ed his Myrmidons to \uc0\u383 eize him, and hang him on \
the next tree. The poor fellow hearing this, cried \
out, I am not the miller but the miller's man. Nay, \
friend, \uc0\u383 aid Sir William, I will take thee at thy \
fir\uc0\u383 t word; if thou art the miller, thou\u42861  art a bu\u383 y \
knave and a rebel, and de\uc0\u383 erve\u383 t to be hang'd: if \
thou art not the miller, thou art a fal\uc0\u383 e, lying \
knave, and can'\uc0\u383 t not do thy ma\u383 ter better \u383 ervice \
than to be hang'd for him. And \uc0\u383 o cau\u383 ed the \
fellow to be executed. \
\
Car TAN Porter, a gay oflicer in Frazer's regi- \
ment, fell in love with a \uc0\u383 prightly young lady at \
Henley upon Thames, and married her. Being \
in lodgings \uc0\u383 ome time after at a village in that \
neighbourhood, they hired a very pretty maid; \
and as they were all young and had but little to \
do, they were wont to divert the time in romping, \
without any exception taken, till one day the mi\uc0\u383 - \
tre\uc0\u383 s bolting open the chamber-door a little too ab- \
ruptly, di\uc0\u383 covered Betty and her ma\u383 ter more fa- \
miliar together than \uc0\u383 he had rea\u383 on to defire they \
\uc0\u383 hould continue; but bridling her pa\u383 \u383 ion, \u383 he \
pull'd to the door, and in\uc0\u383 tantly withdrew. The \
girl, as \uc0\u383 oon as \u383 he could recover her\u383 elf from her \
di\uc0\u383 habille, ha\u383 tened after her mi\u383 tre\u383 s, and in a vi- \
lent agitation, madam, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, I defireyou would \
\
\
24 Vp fEMOARIT us: o, \
take warning, for I would not live with my ma\uc0\u383 ter \
for a king's ran\uc0\u383 om; there never was \u383 o rude-a man \
born; he's always pulling one about, or \uc0\u383 wearing \
at one. Well, well, Bett, \uc0\u383 aid the mi\u383 tre\u383 s, who \
eould not help \uc0\u383 miling, moderate your pa\u383 \u383 ion, and \
never mind him; if he pulls you about, you pull \
him again; and if you pull him a-days, I'II pull \
\
\
him a-nights, and I warrant you we'll tame him \
\
\
between us. \
\
A Iri\uc0\u383 hman meeting one of his countrymen, \
arrah, \uc0\u383 ays Paddy, and who do you think I \u383 ee \
ye\uc0\u383 terday at night, o't'other \u383 ide the way? by my \
con\uc0\u383 hawnes, quoth Murdoch, an I can't tell, for the \
life of me. Why, you fool, quoth Paddy, an J \
tell you, can you gue\uc0\u383 s now? yes, yes, quoth the \
other, anTbelieveIcan. Why then, \uc0\u383 ays Patrick, \
twas little Phelen o'Block. Arrah faith, \uc0\u383 ays \
\
\
Murdoch, and now I know it; and what was he \
\
\
a\uc0\u383 ter faying.now. O chree joy, quoth Paddy, een \
nothing at all, at all; for when I cro\uc0\u383 \u383 ed the way, \
\
an' t him neither. \
Two Irifhmen fighting W one of them \
\
knocked the other down, and \uc0\u383 eeing him lie mo- \
tionle\uc0\u383 s, though the had kill'd him; but taking him \
by the hand, cries, O, my dear Paddy, now be af- \
ter \uc0\u383 peaking to me, and if I have kill'd you, tell \
me honey. To which the other an\uc0\u383 wered, no, my \
dear, Mac, I arn't dead at all at all; but by my \
fboul I am \uc0\u383 peechle\u383 s. 355 \
\
A WELCHMAN hearing a malefactor that was \
try'd ju\uc0\u383 t before him, "ty concerning a mare he \
nad \uc0\u383 tolen, That he brought it up \u383 remaco't; when \
one came to be examined on a \uc0\u383 word he had \u383 hatk- \
\
\
ed, faid 75:t truly by St. David, *twas his owny. fer \
\
\
be bred it up from a dagger. \
\
\
\
\
\
A Lp being ata wedding, and over\uc0\u383 training \
her\uc0\u383 elf a little, let a great fart; at which \u383 he blu\u383 h- \
ed \uc0\u383 o much, and was in \u383 uch confu\u383 ion, that \u383 he was \
forced to quit the chamber, nor could any one per- \
\uc0\u383 uade her to come in again; but happening to leave \
her gloves in a chair, near a gentleman that \uc0\u383 at by \
her, \uc0\u383 he bid one of the maids fetch them away, \
but the maid excu\uc0\u383 ed her\u383 elf, as did the other al- \
\uc0\u383 o. At la\u383 t \u383 he goes in her\u383 elf, without taking no- \
tice of any per\uc0\u383 on, but the gentleman, to whom \u383 he \
faid, Did yu \uc0\u383 ce, fir, (and then \u383 topt) Did I \u383 ee ubat \
madam, \uc0\u383 aid the gentleman? Y (continned \u383 he, \
forgetting her gloves) did ye\uc0\u383 eemy \u383 urt? At which \
the whole company bur\uc0\u383 t into laughter, and with \
much a- do per\uc0\u383 uaded her to \u383 tay, and end their \
mirth together. \
\
A counTRry \uc0\u383 ellow being admitted to a gen- \
tleman's table, \uc0\u383 ell upon the aitichoaks; but not \
knowing what \uc0\u383 hould be eaten, and what not, took \
a mouthful ofthe burrs, which almo\uc0\u383 t choaked him : \
when one who \uc0\u383 at next him \u383 aid, friend, thatdifh \
is re\uc0\u383 erved for the la\u383 t.\'94 Truly, an\u383 wered he, (aa \
well as he could) I am cf your mind, for I think i it \
will be my la\uc0\u383 t. \
\
QUEEN Elizabeth being to pay the city of Co- \
ventry a vi\uc0\u383 it, \u383 he gave notice \u383 ometime before \u383 he \
went; in the interim the mayor and corporation \
propo\uc0\u383 ed \u383 omething to be made on the occa\u383 ion: \
but the chief con\uc0\u383 ultation was, whether it wou'd \
be be\uc0\u383 t in pro\u383 e, or rhyme: however, by a great \
majority, rhyme was-thought be\uc0\u383 t: but who was to \
be poet was \uc0\u383 till undetermined. Fir\u383 t, one was \
propo\uc0\u383 ed, then another ; at la\u383 t the mayor fixed cn \
Mr. Town Clerk\'97agreed\'97A fortnight was given \
tor the great performance; the time expir'd, comes \
\
\
\
Mr. Town Clerk with the poem, every body was \
impatient to hear it, which was, to this effect The \
mayor's name was Bell. \
\
\
Be merry, John Bell, be merry, \
Thou mayor of Coventree; \
\
For her maje\uc0\u383 ty's grace is come to this place \
For to \uc0\u383 ee ME. \
\
\
WELL, it gave great \uc0\u383 atisfaction, all but the \
word ME, which they \uc0\u383 aid look'd as if \u383 he came \
to \uc0\u383 ee youonly. Now you know, Mr. Town Clerk, \
\uc0\u383 he comes to \u383 ee us all; that mu\u383 t be altered, and \
we will give you ten days to con\uc0\u383 ider of it; away \
goes Mr. Town Clerk: and, at his appointed time, \
brings it again, when the great alteration was high- \
Iy approv'd. | \
\
\
Be merry, John Bell, be merry, \
Thou mayor of Coventree; \
\
For her maje\uc0\u383 ty's grace is come to this place \
For to \uc0\u383 ee WI. \
\
\
A MAN at a public boufe near Fever, \
being remarkably abu\uc0\u383 ive of Mr. Wilkes, was cb- \
\uc0\u383 erved to \u383 wear a prodigious number of oaths ; of \
which a gentleman marked them down till they \
mounted to 45; and now my friend, \uc0\u383 ays he,'1 \
vill make you pay for abu\uc0\u383 ing the great patriot.\'94 \
\
Mz. Willies, when a very young man, was can- \
didate for the town cf Berwick upon Tweed, and \
not being returned, preferred a petition- to the \
Hou\uc0\u383 e of Commons. Mr. Campbell accepteda re- \
tzining fee of fifty guineas in this cau\uc0\u383 e. Ju\u383 t be- \
fore it was to come on in the houfe, Mr. Campbell \
\uc0\u383 ent word that he could not plead. Mr. Wilkes \
waited on him, e remon\uc0\u383 trated,---in \
\
\
\
vain---Mr. Campbell could not plead; nor could he re- \
turn the money; but told Mr. Wilkes the law was \
open, to which recour\uc0\u383 e might be had. \
\
No, fir, replied Mr. Wilkes, I was weak e- \
nough to give you a feez but I am not \uc0\u383 uch a fool \
as to go to law with you: for I perceive my whole \
fortune may be waited in retaining fees alone, be- \
fore I \uc0\u383 hall be able to find one that can plead for \
me. I have brought my advocate with me; there- \
fore---draw---for, before I quit this room, I will \
have my money or \uc0\u383 atisfaction.\'93 Mr. Wilkes had \
his money, in\uc0\u383 tead of the fa:thful and able advo- \
cate, which be wanted, and which he would have \
ound, had Mr. Campbell been DI5INTERESTED. \
\
SHORTLY after Mr. Wilkes's fir\uc0\u383 t election for \
M 1dle\uc0\u383 ex, a noble lord \u383 ent a card to a gentleman \
(who formerly was a \uc0\u383 chool-fellow), reque\u383 ting his \
company on a certain day at his lord\uc0\u383 hip's hou\u383 e: \
when the gentleman arrived, after di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 ing on \
the common topics of the day, his lord\uc0\u383 hip began \
to enter on the occa\uc0\u383 ion of his me\u383 \u383 age: I am, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, informed that you got Mr. Wilkes fixty- \
one votes at his late election at Brentford, but hope, \
for my \uc0\u383 ake, it is not true, as I \u383 hould be very \u383 or- \
ry to hear that any of my friends voted for a per\uc0\u383 on \
of Mr. Wilkes's principles.\'93 The gentleman, af- \
ter thanking his lord\uc0\u383 hip \u383 or his candid opinion, re- \
plied, It is not true on my bondur,- -I did not \
get Mr. Wilkes \uc0\u383 ixty- one votes; but I do affure \
your lord\uc0\u383 hip, I and my friends made ju\u383 t one hun- \
dred and twenty one fingle votes for Mr. Wilkes; \
\
\
and, as I am independent, on any future occa\uc0\u383 ion \
\
\
will get two hundred, withoutone \uc0\u383 hilling expence \
to IAr. Wilkes.\'94 \
Tas following anecdote may not at the. pre\uc0\u383 ent \
B 2 \
\
\
\
juncture be unacceptable :---'Thz hone\uc0\u383 t old C- -f \
N---, from the following declaration which he \
made t'other day, \uc0\u383 eems to have a very different i- \
dea of a mob from that which is entertained by \
\uc0\u383 ome. of our pre\u383 ent mighty men :---* I love a mob \
(\uc0\u383 ays he). I headed a mobonce my\u383 elf. Weowe \
the Hanover \uc0\u383 ucce\u383 \u383 ion to a mob.\'94 It is remarka- \
ble, that tho\uc0\u383 e who have di\u383 tingui\u383 hed themf\{ebves \
ito much lately again\uc0\u383 t the mob, are the de\u383 cen- \
dantsof tho\uc0\u383 every per\u383 ons who di\u383 tingui\u383 hed them- \
ielves \uc0\u383 o mach formerly ** the Hanover fuc- \
ce\uc0\u383 \u383 ion. \
\
A GREATbeay, dre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed in a rich wedding \u383 uit, \
happening one day to be coming by Billing\uc0\u383 gate, \
one of the fi\uc0\u383 hwomen eryed out, oh la, I with 1 \
could do what that gentleman in white can do. The \
beau hearing her, arid being curicus to know what \
lhe meant, came up to her, and a\uc0\u383 ked her, what it \
was \uc0\u383 he thought he could do? hy, fir (\u383 ays the) \
vu can ki\uc0\u383 s my ar\u383 e, which you know 1 can't do my- \
Jfer \
\
A YOUNG rake meeting an old bare-footed fty- \
er one day, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 cornfully, ah, father, father, if af- \
ter all your mortifying the fle\uc0\u383 h, there \u383 hould be \
neither heaven nor hell hereafter, what a great fool \
you'll be. Ah! \uc0\u383 on, fon, fays the prie\u383 t, if after \
all your wickedne\uc0\u383 s, chere \u383 hould be a heaven and \
hell hereafter, who 2w1il/ be the greateft fool then, \
Zo er? \
\
AN Irithraan having had a great di\uc0\u383 pute with \
his \uc0\u383 weetheart, in the heat of blood, re\u383 olved ty \
make away with him\uc0\u383 elf, for which purpo\u383 e, he \
went into his . landlady's dining room, having \
\
bought a pair of pi\uc0\u383 tols; and after loading them, \
walking towards the gla\uc0\u383 s; the landlady who Tuf- \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
peed his intentions, ran up \uc0\u383 tairs, and came ju\u383 t \
time enough to \uc0\u383 ee him di\u383 charge his pi\u383 tol into \
the gla\uc0\u383 s, upon which \u383 he cried out, oh oh! I'm \
ruined, and undone forever. . And \uc0\u383 o am J, \u383 ays \
Paddy, for 1 have ju\uc0\u383 t now killed the hand\u383 ome\u383 t man \
in the world. \
\
A scorchofficer paying a vi\uc0\u383 it to Bethlem ho\u383 pi- \
tal, was called after by a young female who \uc0\u383 eemed \
to know him; upon his coming up toher, the a\{k- \
ed him, if he would fight, and thereupon pre\uc0\u383 ented \
a \uc0\u383 traw, he accepted the challenge, for the joke's \
\uc0\u383 ake, They parryed for \u383 ome time, till the young \
bedlamite took an opportunity to \uc0\u383 toop down and \
lift up her pot full of thick and thin, which \uc0\u383 he \
\uc0\u383 uddeuly flung at poor Sawney; there! (\u383 ays \u383 ne) go \
tell your \uc0\u383 bitten king, that 1 have made a \u383 bitten \
captain of you. 4 \
\
QviN, when manager, had kept a poet's trage- \
dy too long. The poet calling often and being \
angry, Quin \uc0\u383 ent him to the bureau and de\u383 ired \
him to take it. After \uc0\u383 earching for it \u383 ome time a- \
mong \uc0\u383 everal others, and not finding his own, Well, \
\uc0\u383 aid Quin, take.two comedies and a farce for it. \
\
A GENTLEMAN order'd his \uc0\u383 ervant to call him \
at fixo' clock in the morning, but he waked him at \
four, and when his. ma\uc0\u383 ter a\u383 ked him the rea\u383 on of \
it; he an\uc0\u383 wer'd, that he came to tell him, that * \
had ftill two \{aig to \uc0\u383 leep. \
 A-counTRY par\uc0\u383 on- who had a great defire to \
di\uc0\u383 engage him\u383 elf from a company of hungry gen- \
tlemen that came to his hou\uc0\u383 e, a\u383 ter he had told \
them, at fir\uc0\u383 t, tkat they were very welcome, and \
made a \uc0\u383 how of \u383 ending his \u383 ervants, \u383 ome of them \
to draw ale, and others to kill fowls, at the \uc0\u383 ame \
\
\
time he took his \uc0\u383 urplice, and his prayer- book in \
\
\
\
\
his hand, and prepar' d him\uc0\u383 elf to go abioad. Where \
are you a-going Mr. Par\uc0\u383 on? \u383 aid the gentlemen. \
He anfwer'd, I'll return in a minute, for J mu\uc0\u383 t go, \
whil\uc0\u383 t the dinner is making ready, to pray by a poor \
man, dying of the plague. And upon \uc0\u383 aying this, \
went out immediately. Upon which tho\uc0\u383 e \u383 pun- \
gers were \uc0\u383 o frightened that they ran away imme: \
diately, full drive, and fled as if the plague had been \
at their heels. \
\
A LATE noble per\uc0\u383 onage, Grieg with one who \
bad 2 particular faculty in making extemporary \
ver\uc0\u383 es, laid him a wager of twenty guineas, that \
he could not make a pertinent an\uc0\u383 wer to what he \
\uc0\u383 hould \u383 ay, in rhyme. The other accepted the \
det, and the money was depo\uc0\u383 ited; when my lord \
cry'd out, as the \uc0\u383 ir\u383 t \u383 tuff that came into his \
| 20ughts, | \
\
\
L laid me down and farted; \
To which bis antagoni\uc0\u383 t as readily reply'd, \
A fool and his money is \uc0\u383 aon parted : \
and \uc0\u383 wept all the ca\u383 h into his hat. \
\
\
A ca \'b7 o\uc0\u383 \u383 icer's account of the \u383 urprizing occurren- \
ces which happened in his voyage. \
\
\
I was in the capacity of a mid\uc0\u383 hipman on board \
2 man of war, call'd the Strike-home; and when \
we had \uc0\u383 ail'd about three leagues from the \u383 hore, \
we were attacked by \uc0\u383 uch a violent \u383 torm, attend- \
ed with a total darkne\uc0\u383 s, that notwith\u383 tanding the \
utmo\uc0\u383 t efforts to pre\u383 erve our lives, in about five \
minutes after this tempe\uc0\u383 t began, the \u383 hip was ca\u383 t \
away,and I believe every \uc0\u383 oul, except my\u383 elf, pert \u383 n \
ed; but to verify the old proverb, which \uc0\u383 ays, tho\u383 e \
that are born to be hang'd will never be drown'd; \
\
\
\
I happened to be \uc0\u383 o fortunate as to be \u383 wallowed by \
an exce\uc0\u383 \u383 ive large whale, in who\u383 e body I re\u383 ided a- \
bout three weeks, as nearas I could gue\uc0\u383 s; daring \
which time having no provi\uc0\u383 ions about me, I fed v- | \
pon his vitals, which the \uc0\u383 alt-water had rendered \
\
very \uc0\u383 avoury and palatable z and really I bK'd my \
provi\uc0\u383 ion very well. But I was \u383 o unfortunate as . \
to be \uc0\u383 ituated in that part of the body where no li- \
quor pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed, and being exce\u383 \u383 ive thir\u383 ty by eating. \
\uc0\u383 uch \u383 alt provi\u383 ions, L could not tell what method \
to pur\uc0\u383 ue, in order to get \u383 omething to drink. At \
length T recolleCted that I had got a piked-pornted \
penknife in my pocket, and having taken it out, \
made towards his bladder, which I picrced with \
the point of it, and putting my lips to the orifice, \
drank my fill. Thus being in po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ion of a \
pantry full of provi\uc0\u383 ions and a cellar full of liquor, \
\
be\uc0\u383 ides living in a large habitation rent - free, I \
thought my\uc0\u383 elf extremely happy, and was very well \
pleafed with my \uc0\u383 ituation. To complete my hap- \
pine\uc0\u383 s, I had a \u383 hort pipe and a large quantity of \
tobacco in my pocket, as al\uc0\u383 o a tinder-box, with a \
flint, and all neceffary appurtenances; and having \
fil'd my pipe, and \uc0\u383 et fire to my tinder, I lighted: \
it. The mon\uc0\u383 ter however not being u\u383 ed to the \
\uc0\u383 moke of tobacco, and as 1 funk'd fuck large cleuds \
of it, grew exce\uc0\u383 \u383 ive fick, and \u383 wam towards the \
\
\
. hore (as they always do when they are either \uc0\u383 ick \
\
\
or wounded) where he was taken with ION \
reaching, and \uc0\u383 pewed me cut upon the dry land, \
on the coa\uc0\u383 t of Kent, with the a farce ima- \
ginable. | \
\
Tou Clark, of St. John's, defred a fellow of \
\
\
the \uc0\u383 ame college to lend him bi\u383 hepBurnet's hiffo- \
\
\
J the re\uc0\u383 ormatien; the other told him he could \
5 4 \
\
\
\
not po\uc0\u383 hbly \u383 pare it out of his chamber, but if he \
plea\uc0\u383 ed he might come there and read in it all day \
long. Some time after, the \uc0\u383 ame gentleman \u383 ends \
to Tom, to borrow his bellows; Tom \uc0\u383 ent him word, \
he could not pa\uc0\u383 \u383 iblx \u383 pare them out of his chamber, \
but he might come there and blow all day lang if he \
would, \
\
JEM MY L , who\uc0\u383 e 8 needs no \
comment, being one night pretty late at cards, at \
the St. James's coffee -hou\uc0\u383 e, at length ro\u383 e up and \
aid, he had nothing now to do but throw him- \
lelf into the arms of Morpheus.\'93 A certain lord, \
who is more \uc0\u383 amous for his wit than good, nature, \
a\uc0\u383 ked him, if G2nymede would not be equally a- \
grecable to him?\'93 \
\
On E Bamb rid ge, a cobling watchmaker, meeting \
'Tompion one dey in Moor\uc0\u383 ields, \u383 topped him, and \
taking him by the hand, \uc0\u383 aid he was heartily glad \
to \uc0\u383 ec him. Tompion expre\u383 \u383 ed his \u383 urprize, \u383 ay- \
ing, Bam bridge bad the advantage ofhim. Why, \
Br, \uc0\u383 aid he, don't you know me?---You and I are the \
| we mo\uc0\u383 t famous men of the trade.\'93 Indeed \u383 aid \
Tompion, may I crave your name? Bambridge, \
Jr, I never beard of it before, fir; are ycu in the \
5 or the flop uay? rejoined Tompion, \
Neither, \uc0\u383 ir, re\u383 umed Bambridge: \'a9 yet I tell \
you once more, we are the two mo\uc0\u383 t famous men of \
the trade---You for being the be\uc0\u383 t, and J. for being the \
worft watch-maker in the world. \
\
Sox gentlemen t'other day bou\uc0\u383 ting of their \
ance\uc0\u383 tors, an arch wag \u383 tanding by, \u383 aid he belie- \
\
\
ved he was of a more ancient \uc0\u383 amily than any of \
\
\
them, and could trace his pedigree in a lineal de- \
\uc0\u383 cent from king Lud. Ay! \u383 ays one of them, \
how do you make that out? , fir, \uc0\u383 aid he, 8 \
\
\
\
\
was my misfortune to be put into Ludgate for 4 \
dabt of fifty billing, and made my e\uc0\u383 caje down a | \
rope. \
\
A CERTAIN bttle German baron, whom the \
world has been \uc0\u383 o ungenerous to as to \u383 uppo\u383 e he \
lived entirely by gaming, was \uc0\u383 ome time fince at | \
Scarborough, and playing at piquet whil\uc0\u383 t dinner 4 \
was preparing, and the forks and knives laid at an \
adjacent table, his adver\uc0\u383 ary being-provoked at an \
unremitting \uc0\u383 eries of ill- luck, and \u383 u\u383 pecting that \
two aces were concealed under one of his hands, \
mo\uc0\u383 t barbarou\u383 ly pinioned it to the table with a \
fork, \uc0\u383 aying, by G--d, baron, I have detected you \
now.\'93 The \uc0\u383 equel. of this adventure was as fatal \
to the baron as the beginning, for not only the a- \
ces were by \uc0\u383 ome unaccountable accident found \
under his hand, butthe implacablefoe in his wrath \
threw the unfortunate German nobleman out of a \
one pair of \uc0\u383 tairs window into the \u383 treet. All the \
con\uc0\u383 olation the baron met with upon this occa\u383 ion, \
was from that arch wag F--te, who happened to be \
pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing at that time, and to whomthe baron related \
his lamentable \uc0\u383 tory---* Have I not always, \u383 aid \
F. -e, dif\uc0\u383 uaded-you, baron, from playing fo High??. \
\
A GENTLEMAN, telling a lady that a certain \
apothecary was broke, and obliged to\uc0\u383 hut up \u383 hop, \
lize enquired the cau\uc0\u383 c; to which the gentleman \
replied, he was \uc0\u383 o. hone\u383 t a man, that in\u383 tead of \
loading his patients with medicines, as is too com- \
mon 2-praclice, he advi\uc0\u383 ed them to takethe whole - \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ome air, and of cour\u383 e lo\u383 t the profits ari\u383 ing from \
\
\
the \uc0\u383 ale of his drugs. Poor man! \u383 ays \u383 he, it is \
Fain he could not live by tbe air, though his pati- \
ents could, \
\
\
Da. M-\'97\'97dcoming out of Tom's coffee hou\uc0\u383 e, \
\
\
\
an impudent broken apothecary met him at the \
door, and defired he would lend him five guineas, | \
How! \uc0\u383 aid the doctor, J am \u383 urprized you \u383 hould ll \
apply to me for \uc0\u383 uch a favour, who don't know you! | \
Oh dear fir, replied the apothecary, it is for that Ml * \
very rea\uc0\u383 on I a\u383 k it, for tho\u383 e who know me won't \
lend me a farthing. | \
AN hone\uc0\u383 t French dragoon, i in the \u383 ervice of \
Lewis XIV. having caught a fellow in bed with \
his wife, after \uc0\u383 ome words told him, he would let \
him e\uc0\u383 cape that time; but, if ever he found him \
taere again, he would throw his hat outat the win- \
dow. Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding this terrible threat, in afew \
days he caught the \uc0\u383 park in the \u383 ame place, and \
, was as good as his word; \uc0\u383 en\u383 ible of what he had \
done, he pefted away to the place where he knew \
j theking was to be; and throwing him\uc0\u383 elf at his \
majelty's feet, implaged his pardon. The king as- \
ked what his offence was? He told him how he \
had been abu\uc0\u383 ed. Well, wel, \u383 aid the king, laugh - \
ing, L very readily forgive you, conhdering your \
* Prov ocation; I think you was much in the right \
to throw his hat out of the window, Yes, and may \
) it plea\uc0\u383 e. you, my liege, but his head was in it, \u383 aid \
the dragoon. Was. it? replied the king, well, my \
\'97 is pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed. \
Tun Rev. Mr. V/ hi\uc0\u383 ton, the famous.a\u383 tronomer, - \
made a calculation, that the world would be at an \
end ineighteen years, and, fome time after, being \
about to di\uc0\u383 po\u383 e of a little e\u383 tate, he a\u383 ked the buy- \
er thirty years purcha\uc0\u383 e; upon which, in great-far- \
prize, the gentleman demanded, With what Face le \
could a\uc0\u383 t fo much, when hewellknewthe world would \
be at an end in little more than half the time ? \
PoE, who, whaterer his other. good qualities \
\
\
\
might be, certainly was not much troubled with \
good nature, was one evening at Button's coffce- \
hou\uc0\u383 e, where he and a \u383 et of literati had got por- \
\
\
, \
\
\
ing over a manuf\uc0\u383 eript of the Greek comic poet A- \
\
\
a \
\
\
ri\uc0\u383 tophanes, in which they found a pa\u383 \u383 age they \
\
\
cculd not comprehend :; as they talked pretty loud, \
a young officer who \uc0\u383 tood by the fire, heard their \
\
\
conference, and begged that he might be permit \
ted to look at the pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age\'97Oh! \u383 ays Pope \u383 arca\u383 ti- \
cally, by all means, pray let the young gentleman \
look at itz upon which the officer took up the book, \
and con\uc0\u383 idering. a while, \u383 aid, that there only want\'bb \
ed a note of interrogation to make the whole intel - \
ligible: which was really the ca\uc0\u383 e; and pray, ma\u383 - \
ter, \uc0\u383 ays Pope, (piqued perhaps at being out-done \
by a red- coat) what is a note of interrogation ? A \
note of interrogation, replied the youth, with a \
look of the utmolt contempt, is a little crooked thing. \
that a\uc0\u383 ks que\u383 tions: *tis \u383 aid however, that Pope was \
\uc0\u383 o delighted with the wit, that he forgave the \u383 ar- \
ca\uc0\u383 m on his per\u383 on. \
\
\
A GENTLEMAN a\uc0\u383 k'd a \u383 hepherd, ine * \
\
\
river was to be pa\uc0\u383 \u383 edover or not; yes, \u383 ays-he ; but \
going to try, flounc'd over head and cars. Why \
thou rogue \uc0\u383 ays he, did not you tell me it might \
be pa\uc0\u383 s'd over? Truly, fir, fays he, I thought \u383 o; 4 \
for my gee\uc0\u383 e go over ond back again every day. \
\
OE broke a je\uc0\u383 t upon a gentleman; and a\u383 ter - \
dinner he told him he could not break a je\uc0\u383 t, but he \
coulll break his pate, and did \uc0\u383 o. \
\
A Ma brought home a \uc0\u383 heep's-head widichs- \
horns en; fays his wife, and why, hu\uc0\u383 band, the \
hovns on? is there not one in the hou\uc0\u383 e already of \
that \uc0\u383 ort? but life to like; I \u383 eg your humour is t \
Eave.; e like your\uc0\u383 elf. \
\
\
ANOTHER bought a pair of horns, and brought \
them home; his wife a\uc0\u383 k'd him what that meant: \
\
he \uc0\u383 aid, to hang his hat on: good lord, fays the, \
can't you keep your hat on your own head. \
\
A JUDGE willing to \uc0\u383 ave a man that. \u383 tole a \
watch, it was valued but at twelve pence; but be \
that lo\uc0\u383 t it \u383 aid, the fa\u383 hion of it co\u383 t himfive pounds. \
O \uc0\u383 ays the judge, we mu\u383 t not hang a man Jer \u383 a\u383 oi. \
on fake. \
\
An. ignorant phy\uc0\u383 ician told a par\u383 on, that his \
cure maintain'd only him\uc0\u383 elf; but mine, \u383 ays he, \
maintains all the \uc0\u383 extons in town, \
\
Mx. Derrick having, by \uc0\u383 ome means, given-2 \
\
b !'ght offence to a lady, which, however, \uc0\u383 he was \
very well di\uc0\u383 po\u383 ed to pardon, on his a\u383 king. it a \
gentleman, who was an admirer of the lady, and a \
zecret enemy to Derrick, prevented them from \
meeting, by fal\uc0\u383 ely repre\u383 enting them to each o- \
ther; notwith\uc0\u383 tanding which, ina polite company \
here this quarrel was brought upon the carpet, \
hie had the a\uc0\u383 \u383 urance to \u383 ay, that he had /creened \
Derrick from the lady's re\uc0\u383 entment. * I believe \
tet Derrick) you have \uc0\u383 tood between me and the \
Jun.\'93 5 + (. \
Mx. Derrick u\uc0\u383 ed to entertain his friends with \
the following \uc0\u383 tory: a friend of his, a \u383 ingle gen- \
tleman, had an Iri\uc0\u383 h \u383 ootman as guilty of bull-ma- \
king as any gentleman of that country. 'The above \
gentleman having bought four pair of filk \uc0\u383 tock- \
ings, gave them to this fellow (who was his war- \
drobe-keeper) to take care of, but in le\uc0\u383 s than a \
weck two pair out of the four were lo\uc0\u383 t: Paddy, \
with a \uc0\u383 orrowful countenance, informed his ma\u383 tee \
of the accident, and begged he would not beangry, \
1 for that he would an\uc0\u383 wer for getting them again, \
\
\
\
as he had adverti\uc0\u383 ed them. And how. much \
did you offer as a reward? \uc0\u383 ays the gentleman.\'94 \
Four \uc0\u383 hillings a pair, fir, \u383 ays Paddy.\'93 Why thou \
incorrigible dog! (returns his ma\uc0\u383 ter) can you be \
fool enough to \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 e that eight \u383 hillings will re- \
cover two pair of fi E \uc0\u383 tockings that did not co\u383 t \
me le\uc0\u383 s than a guinea and a half ?-O! by Ja\u383 us, \
Gr, you are after mi\uc0\u383 taking if you \u383 u\u383 pect my cun - \
ning: I fore\uc0\u383 aw that as well as you, and los: \
in the adverti\uc0\u383 ement, I made\'bb them believe the \
\uc0\u383 tockings were worfled? ; | \
In: a tea-table conver\uc0\u383 ation, a certain lady of \
quality told Mr. Derrick, the had heard, that when \
he was a writer in the Review, he frequently im- \
po\uc0\u383 ed on the public, by be\u383 towing great commen- \
\
\
dations on authors of no genius, merely becau\uc0\u383 e \
\
\
they were his friends. \'a9 Admitting this to be \
true, . madam, (an\uc0\u383 wered he) I- ated with more \
genero\uc0\u383 ity than you do, for-whether friends or foes, \
de\uc0\u383 erving or e you \u383 candalize every body \
you know.\'93 \
\
Mx. Derrick u\uc0\u383 ed to amu\u383 e the ladies with the \
following \uc0\u383 tory.\'97 A fruiterer's wife, and the lady \
of a chee\uc0\u383 e-monger meeting accidentally together \
at the hou\uc0\u383 e of an acquaintance, and happening 10 \
depart. at the \uc0\u383 ame time, on the lady fruiterer \u383 tep- * \
ping fir\uc0\u383 t to the door,\'97* Stop, madam, \u383 ays the o- \
ther, chee\uc0\u383 e always precedes fruit\'94 and pu\u383 hing \
her a\uc0\u383 ide, went down flairs before her. \
\
Mz. Derrick, on a journey to Derby\uc0\u383 hire, \u383 top- \
ped at an inn, the landlord of which was lately \
dead. The di\uc0\u383 con\u383 olate widow, on hearing who \
Mr, Derrick was, e earne\uc0\u383 tly \u383 olicited him to write \
an epitaph on her decea\uc0\u383 ed \u383 pou\u383 e, declaring, that \
out of tne fix hu\uc0\u383 bands \u383 he had had, not one of \
\
\
 W\'97 r?  \'97 U \'97 \'97_\'97 \'97 \'97\'97 \'97  \'97 \'97  \'97 \'97  \'97 \'97 = \'97 \'97 \'97 5 \'97 \
\
\
\
\
Derrick, in compliance with her reque\uc0\u383 t, told her \
he would write an epitaph, and immediately went \
out among the neighbours to enquue- the qualities \
of the deceafed; and being informed that he was \
2 man of prodigious bulk, and remarkable \uc0\u383 or no- \
thing \uc0\u383 o much as \u383 tupidity: and es; * \
the ben 5 | \
\
\
; Three feet beneath this tomb- \uc0\u383 tone ? lies \
A BODY of ie ze: \
From nature, nature's \uc0\u383 elf bad \u383 tole; \
\
So- gare him but a pigmy sou: \
\
Tho men de \uc0\u383 pis'd him, death, \u383 till craving, \
Thought this big little THING worth having; \
But whether gone to heav'n or hell, \
\
No mortal cares\'97nor can I tell! , \
\
\
Tax witty and extravagant duke of Bucking- \
ham in king Charles II.'s time, complaining to Sir \
John Cutler, a rich mi\uc0\u383 er, of the di\u383 order of his \
affairs, a\uc0\u383 ked him what he \u383 hould do to prevent the \
ruin of his e\uc0\u383 tate? Live as I do, my lord, \u383 aid Sir \
John. That I can n ah, pepe the n when-1. \
am ruinad. * \
\
ANOTHER time, a per\uc0\u383 on who had bode A ge: \
pendant on his grace, begged his intere\uc0\u383 t for him \
at court; and to pre\uc0\u383 s the thing more home upon \
| the duke, \uc0\u383 aid, He had no body to depend upon but \
| j God and his grace. Then, \uc0\u383 aid the duke, You are in \
\
a mi\uc0\u383 erable way ; for ycu could not have comer ue \
\
* any two who have lefs intere\uc0\u383 t at court. 5 \
k& A Lapy being a\uc0\u383 ked\'94 how \u383 he liked a gentle. \
man's \uc0\u383 inging, who had a very \u383 tinking breaths: \
#he words are gecd, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, but. the air is intcleras \
bie. . i 150% $38 \
\
\
\
\
Wren Sir Richard Steele was fitting up bis \
great room in York-buildings, which he intended \
for public orations, he happened to be pretty much \
behind-hand with his workmen, and coming one \
day among them, to \uc0\u383 ee how they went forward, \
\
\
he ordered one of them to get into the Roftrum, \
\
\
and make a \uc0\u383 peech, that he might ob\u383 erve how it \
would be heard; the fellow mounting, and \uc0\u383 cratch- \
ing his pate, told him, he knew not what to \uc0\u383 ay, \
for in truth he was no orator. No matter, faid the \
knight, \uc0\u383 peak any thing that comes uppermo\u383 t. Why \
here, Sir Richard, fays the fellow, we have been. \
working for you the\uc0\u383 e \u383 ix weeks, and cannot get one \
penny of money; pray, fir, when do you intend to \
ay us? Very well, very well, \uc0\u383 aid Sir Richard, \
pray come done, I have heard enough; I cannot \
but own you \uc0\u383 peak very di\u383 tinctly, tho? 1 don't \
admire your \uc0\u383 ubject. \
\
MIcHAEL Angelo, in his piQture of che la \uc0\u383 t \
judgment, in the pope's chapel, painted among the \
figures in hell, that of a certain cardinal, who was \
his enemy, \uc0\u383 o like, that every body knew it at fir\u383 t \
fight. Whereupon the cardinal complaining to \
the pope of the affront, and de\uc0\u383 iring it might be \
defaced: You know very well, \uc0\u383 aid the pope, I Have \
power to deliver a \uc0\u383 oul out of purgatory, but not cut \
of hell. \
\
Two Oxford \uc0\u383 cholars meeting on the road \
a York\uc0\u383 hire ho\u383 tler, they fell to bantering him, and \
told the fellow they would prove him to be a hor\uc0\u383 e, \
or an rt. Well, faid the ho\uc0\u383 tfer, I can prove \
your \uc0\u383 addle to be a mule. A mule, cried one of | \
them, how can that be? Becau\uc0\u383 e, \u383 aid the ho\u383 tler, \
\
\
A GENTLEMAN coming to an inn in Smith\'bb \
\
\
\
\uc0\u383 teld, and \u383 eeing the o\u383 tler expert and tractable a- \
bout the hor\uc0\u383 es, a\u383 ked him how long he had lived \
there, and what countryman he was? /\uc0\u383 e Yerk- \
thire, \uc0\u383 aid the fellow, an ha hived\u383 exteen yearshere. \
Z wender, replied the gentleman, that in \uc0\u383 o long a \
time, \uc0\u383 o clever. a fellow: as you \u383 eem to be, have not \
\
\
come to be ma\uc0\u383 ter of the inn your\u383 elf. Aye, an\u383 wer- | \
\
\
ed the ho\uc0\u383 tler, but maifter's Yerk\u383 hire too. \
\
Qui, having had an invitation from a certain \
nobleman, who was reputed-to keepa very elegant \
table, to dine with him, and having no manner of \
aver\uc0\u383 ion to a good repa\u383 t, he accordingly waited u- \
pon his lord\uc0\u383 hip: but found the regale far \u383 rom \
an\uc0\u383 wering his expectation. Upon his taking leave, \
the \uc0\u383 ervants, who were very numerous, had ranged \
them\uc0\u383 elves in the hall: Quin, finding that if he \
gave to each of them it would amount to a pretty \
\
\
large \uc0\u383 um, a\u383 ked, which was the cook;' who rea- \
\
\
dily an\uc0\u383 wered, \'a9* Me, fir.' He then enquired forthe \
butler, who was as quick in replying as the other; \
\
\
when he \uc0\u383 aid to the fir\u383 t, Here's halfa crown for | \
| my eating, and to the other, Here's five \uc0\u383 hillings \
\
\
for my ls but by G--d, gentlemen, I never made \
\
\
fo bad. a dinner for the money in my life. \
\
\
A.GENTLEMAN travelling in the highlands of \
Scotland on hor\uc0\u383 eback, was overtaken on the road \
by a violent \uc0\u383 torm, and oblized to put into an old \
\
\
woman's hovel, who \uc0\u383 old tobacco and \u383 mall bcer, \
for \uc0\u383 helter: among other things, he a\u383 ked her if \u383 he \
did not with to be in heaven; ah! quoth \uc0\u383 he, it is \
nae for fic poor folk as I tohave\uc0\u383 uchvainthovghts: \
\
\
troth, fir, I \uc0\u383 hall he ee'n very weel content, gen 1 \
can get a wee corner in hell to keep my \uc0\u383 hop in. \
= Lord Ro\uc0\u383 s of Ireland \u383 old a gentleman a bor\u383 g \
for a good round \uc0\u383 um, which he tek upon his lurd\u11799  \
\
\
cabler, who had ju\uc0\u383 t died in the \u383 treet, a man a\u383 k- \
\
\
THE EAUCHING PHELOSOPHER. 4r \
\
\
\uc0\u383 nip's word, that he had no fault. About three \
weeks after, he meets my lord; why, your lord- \
\uc0\u383 uip told me, \u383 ays he, that your hor\u383 e had no fault, l \
and-he'is blind of an eye; well, fir, \uc0\u383 ays my lord; | \
that's no fault, tis only his misfortune. | you \
A GREAT crowd being gathered about a 2007 \
\
\
\
ed another what was to be \uc0\u383 een? only a cobler's \
end, replied he. \'e4 | \
\
A cockNnEy being \uc0\u383 ent to \u383 ee what it was o \
clock by St. Paul's clock,\'94 returned, and told his \
ma\uc0\u383 ter it was fourteen o' clock. Fourteen o' clock"! \
\uc0\u383 ays his ma\u383 ter; what do you. mean, you \u383 tupid \
dog? indeed, fir, an\uc0\u383 wered he, it is true; \u383 or by St. \
George, St. Paul's clock \uc0\u383 truck /ever, and the pa\u383 - \
try-cook's ju\uc0\u383 t by \u383 truck even more, and I'm \u383 ure, \
ma\uc0\u383 ter, that \u383 even and \u383 even makes fourteen- \
Ar Roy par\uc0\u383 on, and his man, riding over a \
2 \uc0\u383 aw a \u383 hepherd tending his flock, and hav \
ing a new coat on, the par\uc0\u383 ona\u383 ked him in a haugh- \
ty tone, who gave him that coat? the \uc0\u383 ame, \u383 aid the \
\uc0\u383 hepherd, that cloathed you, the paris. The pare z \
\
\
\uc0\u383 on, nettled at this, rode on murmuring a little way, \
and then bade his man go back, and a\uc0\u383 k the \u383 hep- \
herd, ifhe'd come and live with him, for be want- \
ed a fool. The man going accordingly to the \uc0\u383 hep- \
herd, delivered his ma\uc0\u383 ter's meflage, and conclu- \
ded as he was ordered, that his ma\uc0\u383 ter wanted a \
fool. Why, are you going ' away then? \uc0\u383 aid the \
\uc0\u383 hepherd. No, an\u383 wered. the other. Then you \
may tell your ma\uc0\u383 ter, replied the Keen that his \
living won't maintain three of us. r \
\
A Ma and his wife being a fighting, a gen: \
tleman attempting to part them, was cut into the \
\
\
Null; \uc0\u383 ays the \u383 urgeon, fir, one ma y\u383 ec your brains: \
\
\
\
42 DEMO MRITUSs: on, \
nay, then PII be hang d, \uc0\u383 aid be, if 7 had had any \
brains, I bad never come there. \
\
ONE, who had always been very joco\uc0\u383 e in his \
life-time, when he lay on his death-bed, his clerk \
came and defired he would leave him a legacy: \
here, \uc0\u383 aid be, giving him a key, in \u383 uch a drawer \
there is what will make you drink, Not many \
hours after, he died, and the youth greedily open- \
1 ing the drawer, found PC hg two red ber- \
\
\
Ange. \
A GENTLEMAN' 'being a\uc0\u383 ked by a neighbeur \
\
\
how he did? Do, fir, \uc0\u383 aid he; why I think I do ve- \
\
\
Ty well; but truly I cannot get my wife to think fo. \
A $scoTCH bagpiper travelling into Ireland, o- \
pened his wallet by a wood-fide, and fat down to \
dinner; he had no rler grace, than three \
wol ves came about him. To one he threw bread, \
to another meat, till his provi\uc0\u383 ion was all gone; at \
\
\
| Tength, he took up his bagpipes, and began to play; \
at which the wolves ran away. The deel faw mo, \
\
\
Taid Sawney, an I had henn'd you lov'd way 50 Jo, ye \
\
\
Nu d have Had it be\uc0\u383 cre dinner. \
\
AFELLOW bearing the drums beat up s vo- \
Junteers for France, in the expedition again\uc0\u383 t the \
Nutch, imagin'd him\uc0\u383 elf valiant enough, and there- \
\
\
Fupon lifted. When he return'd, his friends a\uc0\u383 ked \
what exploits he-did there? He an\uc0\u383 wer'd, that he \
\
\
cut off one of the enemy's legs; and being told it had \
\
\
been more honourable and manly to have cut off \
\
\
his. head, C5. fays he, you mu\uc0\u383 t know his n Was \
i _ of before: 13 ILL \
\
\
A. FELLOW nut in the vittory near Tei) \
ple-bar,' occa\uc0\u383 ioned a great \u383 top, \u383 o that a carmanz \
with a load of chee\uc0\u383 e, had much ado to get alongz \
and driving ju\uc0\u383 t up to the pillory, a\u383 k'd what Was \
\
\
\'84 ooo Oo\'94 PR as \'de hl \
\
\
wrote over the criminal's head? They told him, it \
\
\
was a paper to \uc0\u383 igaify his crime, and that he \u383 tood \
\
\
there for Forgery. Ah! continued he, and what \
is forgery? they an\uc0\u383 wered, that forgery was coun- \
terfeiting another's hand with intent to cheat peo- \
ple. To which the carman replied, looking up at \
the offender; Oh! pox on ye, this comes of your \
writing and reading, you \uc0\u383 illy dog! | \
\
Two country attornies, overtaking a waggoner \
on the road, and thinking to crack a joke on him, \
\
\
alk'd why his fore-hor\uc0\u383 e was \u383 o fat, and the re\u383 t fo. \
\
\
leanz the waggoner knowing them to be limbs of \
the law, an\uc0\u383 wer'd, That his foreahor\u383 e was a law. \
\
yer, and the re\uc0\u383 t were his clients. \
\
- Some unlucky We\uc0\u383 tmin\u383 ter \u383 cholars, under Dr. \
Bu\uc0\u383 by, be\u383 mear'd the \u383 tairs leading to fchool with \
\uc0\u383 omething that \u383 hall be namele\u383 s: the doctor, as \
was de\uc0\u383 ign'd, foul'd his fingers very much with itz \
which fo enraged him, that he cried out, he would \
\
\
give any boy half a crown, to di\uc0\u383 cover who had 4 \
\
\
hand in it. An arch boy immediately told him, \
\
\
for that reward he wou'd let him know who had x, \
\
\
hand in it. Well, \uc0\u383 aid the doctor, III certainly \
\
\
give you the half crown, if you tell me the truth! \
Why, then, fir, an\uc0\u383 wer'd the boy, you had a hand 5 \
\
\
ir, look at your fingers el\uc0\u383 e. \
AN ingenious young gentleman, of Oxford, was \
appointed to preach at St. Mary's, before the vice- \
\
\
chancellor and the heads of the univer\uc0\u383 ity. Hav- \
\
\
ing often ob\uc0\u383 erved the drow\u383 ine\u383 s of the vice-chan. \
cellor, he took for his text, What! cannot ye watch \
one hour\'93 and at the end of every divi\uc0\u383 ion, he re- \
peated tho\uc0\u383 e words, which, by rea\u383 on the vice-chan- \
cellorfat near the pulpit; often awak'd him. This \
was highly applauded by the wits, and at length \
\
\
\
ecame the talk of the univer\uc0\u383 ity, and nettled the \
vice- chancellor to \uc0\u383 uch a degree, that he com- \
plained of it to the archbi\uc0\u383 hop of Canterbury; who, \
willing to redre\uc0\u383 s him, \u383 ent \u383 or the preacher up to \
London, to make his defence again\uc0\u383 t the crime laid \
to his charge. | On his examination, he gave \uc0\u383 o \
many in\uc0\u383 tances of his extraordinary wit, that the \
archbi\uc0\u383 hop enjoined him to preach be\u383 ore king \
James; to which, after \uc0\u383 ome excu\u383 es, he agreed. \
Coming up into the pulpit, he begins; James th- \
fir\uc0\u383 t and fixth, waver not; meaning the fir\u383 t king \
of England, and \uc0\u383 ixth of Scotland. The king at \
fir\uc0\u383 t \u383 eem' d amaz'd at the text, but in the end, was \
well plea\uc0\u383 ed with the \u383 ermon; and made him one \
of his chaplains in ordinary. After his advance- \
ment, the archbifhop \uc0\u383 ent him back to Oxford, to \
make his recantation to the vice- chancellor, and \
take leave of the univer\uc0\u383 ity, which he did accord- \
ingly, and took the latter part of the ver\uc0\u383 e of his \
former text; namely, fleep on now, and take- your \
ret. In the conclu\uc0\u383 ion of his \u383 ermon, he made \
his apology to the vice-chancellor, \uc0\u383 aying, whereas \
1 \uc0\u383 aid before, which gave oifence, what ! can't you \
: \'a9, watch one hour ? I now \uc0\u383 ay, fleep on and take [ng \
\
-\}\\ ref: and \uc0\u383 o left the univerfity.  - ka \
A $coTs member of great wit and humour; com- \
ng one morning to the duke of Argyle, at the \
time of the great oppo\uc0\u383 ition between him and Sir \
Robert; told his grace that he had \uc0\u383 ome very bad \
news to acquaint him with. What's the matter? \
quoth the duke. Be me troth, quoth he, what 1 \
\
\
have to tell ye, is very baw'd on cor \uc0\u383 ide. Fiithee,, \
quoth the duke, don't keep me in \uc0\u383 u\u383 pence; what \
\
\
is it? Does your grace hen that Wallie is bout o- \
\
\
ver ? that's impolkible, \uc0\u383 ays the duke, for a \u383 taun \'b7 \
\
\
THE LAUCHING PHILOSOPHER, 45 \
\
\
e cher man docs not live, than hone\uc0\u383 t Wallie; but \
1 why -d'ye think \uc0\u383 o! Why, and plea\u383 e your grace, 1 \
, e t'other morn a three found twelve in his hand; \
o and I'm \uc0\u383 ure Wallie n&er brout that out of his aun \
d country. 5 : \
\uc0\u383 o ! A DIiGvIfIED clergyman, going down'to his \
e lieing to \uc0\u383 pend the \u383 ummer, met near his hou\u383 e a \
g comical old chimney-\{weeper, with whom he u\uc0\u383 ed \
j. o chat. 80, John, \uc0\u383 ays the doctor, from whence \
\'84\'84 come you? From your hou\uc0\u383 e, \u383 ays Mr. Soot; for \
g RE morning I have \uc0\u383 wept all yourchimnies. How \
* many were there, \uc0\u383 ays the doctor? no le\u383 s than \
as | twenty, quoth John. Well, and how much a \
ne chimney have your only a \uc0\u383 hilling a-piece, fir, \
e- Why then, quoth the doctor, you have earned a \
to great deal of money in a little time. Yes, yes, jor, \
ad \uc0\u383 ays John, throwing his bag of \u383 oot over his \u383 houl- \
\
\
d- ders, -weblack coats get our muney ea\uc0\u383 y encu \
is A YOUNG \uc0\u383 tudent, \u383 newing the Mu\u383 \'e6um at \
\
\
ir | -Oxford to a \uc0\u383 et of gentlemen and ladies, among o- \
le | ther things produc'd a ru\uc0\u383 ty \u383 word: this, \u383 ays he, \
as gentlemen, is the \uc0\u383 w\'f6rd with which Balaam was \
ou | going to kill his a\uc0\u383 s. Upon which, one of the com- \
ir | pany replied, that he thought Balaam had no \uc0\u383 word, \
I but only wi\uc0\u383 h'd for one. You are right, \u383 ays the \
n- | \uc0\u383 tudent, and this is the very fword he wi\u383 h'd for. \
Ox of the rebels having e\uc0\u383 caped out of the \
ir | tower in the year fiiteen, a gentleman, frightened \
ad | out of his \uc0\u383 en\u383 es, ran to king George I. to acquaint \
r? him of this news; and begged his maje\uc0\u383 ty would \
II tell him what he could do in this ca\uc0\u383 e. , Really, \
e, | fir, \uc0\u383 ays the king, for your part, I don\'94 tknow what \
at | you can do; but, for the pri\uc0\u383 oner's part, 3 he \
o- | cou'd not have done better. \
| An AEN of hor\uc0\u383 e in King William\'94 time, \
\
\
\
being quarter'd at Canterbury, and the archbi\uc0\u383 hon \
being then there, he invited all the officers of the \
\
\
regiment to dinner. One ofthe cornets being ob- \
\
\
liged to keep guard that day, and lamenting his \
misfortune, that he could not have the honour to \
dine with the bi\uc0\u383 hop, bethought him\u383 elf of this \
\uc0\u383 tratagem: he knew that one of his brother cornets \
was gone out of town, and would not return til! \
evening; he determined thercfore to wait for him \
at his lodgings, and frighten him by a fal\uc0\u383 e me\u383 . \
lage from the bi\uc0\u383 hop. Accordingly, when his com- \
rade arrived, he addre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed him thus: Tom, I believe \
I fhall \uc0\u383 urprize you. Why, \u383 ays Tom, what the \
dee'lis the matter? no great matter, \uc0\u383 ays his com- \
rade, only the bi\uc0\u383 hop has \u383 ent for all the officers to \
hear them their catechi\uc0\u383 m, 'The devil he has, \
quoth Tom! then I am ruin'd hor\uc0\u383 e and foot, for \
as I am a \uc0\u383 inner, I can't \u383 ay three lines. Never be \
troubled about that, \uc0\u383 ays his comrade, I can \u383 ay \
mine every word; and if you'll mount guard for \
me to morrow, PI go in your place. Wich all \
my heart, \uc0\u383 ays Tom, and thank you to boot; \u383 o the \
next day, they all, except Tom, din'd with the bi- \
\uc0\u383 hop: his lord\u383 hip, being a very polite man, told \
the colonel, that he hoped all his officers were \
there; for he intended it as a general invitation. \
The colonel told him they were all there, except \
one young gentleman, who was oblig'd to mount \
guard, The bi\uc0\u383 hop took no notice of it then, but \
the next day \uc0\u383 ent his \u383 ervant to the ab\u383 ent gentle- \
man, to defire his company by himf\uc0\u383 etf:' Tom had \
no fooner receiv'd the me\uc0\u383 \u383 age, than he ran fright- \
ened out of his \uc0\u383 en\u383 es to his comrade, to make his \
complaint: ah! my friend, \uc0\u383 ays Tom, eis all in \
Fainz I * go at la\uc0\u383 t, che e has \u383 ent \u383 or me. \
\
\
\
\
\
Never mind it, \uc0\u383 ays his comrade, you'll do very \
well; he did not a\uc0\u383 k us above one que\u383 tion or two, \
Tom being thus prepared, went to the bi\uc0\u383 hop's, \
where he was introduced into a parlour ; at length \
his lord\uc0\u383 hip came in: fir, \u383 ays the bi\u383 hop, I am \
forry I could not have the plea\uc0\u383 ure of your compa- \
ny ye\uc0\u383 terday; may I crave your name, fays the bi- \
flop? Thomas, my lord, replied the cornet. What \
countryman, \uc0\u383 ays the bi\u383 hop? my godfathers and \
godmot hers, replied the cornet. Says the bi\uc0\u383 hop, \
don't mean to catechi\uc0\u383 e you, and thus the cheat \
was di\uc0\u383 covered. \
\
Myr friend 'Tom Tickle is peculiarly odd in his \
manner of drawing characters: I remember, he \
nce while I was with bim, \uc0\u383 ent his \u383 ervant to I \
gentleman, who is remarkable for being always in \
\
\
a hurry, with a me\uc0\u383 \u383 age of great importance; but. \
the \uc0\u383 ervant returned, and told his ma\u383 ter, that the \
gentleman was in \uc0\u383 o great a hurry, he could not \
\
\
\uc0\u383 peak to him. Tig no more than what 1 expeticd,. \
\uc0\u383 ays Tom, for he \u383 es an hour in the "rg and \
\
\
runs after it all day. \
\
\
AN old woman, who was \uc0\u383 amous for lling ale \
at Oxford, and to who\uc0\u383 e hou\u383 e there re\u383 orted many \
of the \uc0\u383 cholars, \u383 everal ofthem remarked, that they \
never \uc0\u383 aw their landlady at church; they in\u383 i\u383 ted, \
that *f Me valued their cu\uc0\u383 tom, and hoped to have \
the continuation of it for the future, that on the \
\uc0\u383 ucceeding and every Sunday following, \u383 he \u383 hould \
con\uc0\u383 tantly be there. She, like a woman, who vas \
\
\
Jued het intere\uc0\u383 t more than her religion, told them, \
\
\
that \uc0\u383 he wou'd be very willing to comply with their \
\
\
reque\uc0\u383 ts. Accordingly-when Sunday came, \u383 he ar- \
\
\
rayed her\uc0\u383 elf in her be\u383 t apparel, and taking her an- \
\
\
\
\
\
cient * p bible, proceeded in great form to church: \
\
\
\
48 druccalress: on, \
but being unu\uc0\u383 ed to the place, in \u383 ermon - time \u383 he \
fell fa\uc0\u383 t a \u383 lcep, and unluckily let her bible fall, \
\
\
which making a great noi\uc0\u383 e, awakened her. She had \
forgot where the was, and thinking \uc0\u383 he vas at home, \
\
\
and that her maids had done \uc0\u383 ome mi\u383 chief, \u383 tart- \
\
\
ed up in a great pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, with the following excla- \
mation: \uc0\u383 o you \u383 lut, there's another jug broke, i 18 \
\
\
there? \
\
\
_, Wren Moliere, the great comic poet of France, \
died, the archbi\uc0\u383 hop of Paris would not let his bo- \
dy. be buried in con\uc0\u383 ecrated ground: the king be- \
ing informed of this, \uc0\u383 ent \u383 or the archbi\u383 hop, and \
expo\uc0\u383 tulated with him about it; but finding him \
\
\
_ unwilling to comply, a\uc0\u383 k'd how many feet deep the \
\
\
holy ground reach'd ? the bi\uc0\u383 hop, an\u383 wered, ab5ut \
\
\
_ . eight. Well, replied the king, I ind there is noget- \
\
\
ting the better of your \uc0\u383 cruples ; therefore let his \
\
\
; grave be dug twelve feet deep, that's four below \
\
\
' there. \
\
\
your con\uc0\u383 ecrated n. and let them bury him \
\
\
A GENTLEMAN riding \'ab over - Salibury: plain, \
\
\
when it rained very hard, \uc0\u383 et up a gallop, and \
\
\
pa\uc0\u383 s'd by another who\u383 e hor\u383 e \u383 tood \u383 till; a little \
\
\
- \uc0\u383 urpri\u383 ed at this \u383 ight, he a\u383 k'd the rea\u383 on of it, \
- -Zounds, \uc0\u383 ays the other, who- er but a fool wou'd \
\
\
ride in all this wet. \
A CITIZEN. . \uc0\u383 ome of his neighbours to \
\
\
5 a fea\uc0\u383 t, his \u383 on handing a gla\u383 s of wine to a gentle- \
man, accidentally! \uc0\u383 pilt it on his band; and for h. \
carele\uc0\u383 \u383 ne\u383 s his father took him a box on the ear. \
\
\
The \{6n having recover'd him\uc0\u383 elf, gave the next \
man a good box. Being a\uc0\u383 ked the rea\u383 on, \u383 aid, \
\
\
come, come, det it go round, till come to my father \
\
\
anon, \'97 . not . him my\uc0\u383 elf. ; \
\
\
\'97 morn rem oy \
\
\
\
A GENTI.E MAN, who was very moro\uc0\u383 e and ill- \
natured at home in his family, was remarkably fa- \
cetious and merry abroad, in\uc0\u383 omuch that he was \
more than ordinarily entertaining wherever he went; \
which occa\uc0\u383 ioned a lady, once at a merry meeting \
\
\
| where he was, to \uc0\u383 ay to one pre\u383 ent, who knew him \
\
\
well, Surely, if that gentleman's married, his wife \
mu\uc0\u383 t be extremely happy ; fer he is quite the Fiddle: \
of the company; Very true, madam, \uc0\u383 ays the gen- \
tlemen, but he always hangs his fiddle up at the \
door, when he goes home. | \
- SOME foldiers,. quartered in a country town, : \
meeting a \uc0\u383 armer on the road, a little way out of \
town, in a dark night, robbed him of his great coat \
and money. The farmer went immediately to one \
of the captains of the regiment, to make complaint. \
Honeft friend, \uc0\u383 ays the captain, when the \u383 oldiers rob- \
bed you, had you that coat en which you have now ? \
Yes, Sir, an\uc0\u383 wered the poor man: Why then, repli- \
ed the captain, y;u may depend on't that they do not \
belong to my company, for wy world nct have te\uc0\u383 t \
\
\
that, ner even your \uc0\u383 hirt \
\
\
A CERTAIN \uc0\u383 oldier, u ho was \u383 eized with a pa- \
nic \uc0\u383 car, came running to Leonidas, and faid to him, \
The enemy, O Lecnidas, are upon us; then we \
certainly are upen them, replied Leonidas. To \
mncther foldier, who told bim, The enemy were 10 \
numerous, that the darts ob\uc0\u383 cured the \u383 un: So much - \
the better, \uc0\u383 ays he, \u383 er then we \u383 hall have the f lea- \
\uc0\u383 ure of fighting in the \u383 hade. \
\
As the late king cf France was pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing over the \
Pont-neuf at Paris, on a winter's day, he \uc0\u383 aw a Ga\u383 - \
coon very thinly clad, looking into the water; and \
ding up to him, afed him if he was not cold: \
Upon which the Ga\uc0\u383 cocn enfvcred, No, and a\'df \
C \
\
\
\
\
your maje\uc0\u383 iy; and if you'd do as I do you world no! \
be cold neither. How is that ? \uc0\u383 ays the king: Why, \
wear all your cloaths at once, replied the Ga\uc0\u383 coon. \
A Fxencn Marquis, being one day at dinner \
at Roger Williams's, the famous pun\uc0\u383 ter and pub - \
lican, was boa\uc0\u383 ting of the happy genius of his na- \
tion, in projecting all the fine modes and fa\uc0\u383 hions; \
particularly the Ruffle, which, he faid, was de fine \
ornament to de hand; and had been followed by de o- \
der nations. Roger allowed what he fa:d, but ob- \
\uc0\u383 ervcd at the \u383 ame time, that the Engli\u383 h, accord - \
ing to cu\uc0\u383 tom, had made a great improvement upon \
their invention, by adding a \uc0\u383 hirt to it. \
\
\'84 An Engli\uc0\u383 h gentleman a\u383 ked Sir Richard Steele, \
'who was an Iri\uc0\u383 hman, what was the rea\u383 on his coun- \
trymen were \uc0\u383 o remarkable for blundering, and ma- \
King bulls? Faith, lays the Knight, I believe there \
ps \uc0\u383 omething in the air of Ireland; and I dare \u383 ay, \
an Engli\uc0\u383 hman was born there, he would do the \
_ "A CENTLEMAN, \uc0\u383 peaking of Peggy Yates, the \
\{famous courtezan, who had always abundance of \
hne cloaths, \uc0\u383 aid, \u383 be was like a \u383 quirrel, for \u383 he co- \
 wered her back with her tail. | \
A '$OLDIER was bragging before Julius C\'e6\uc0\u383 ar, \
of the wounds he had received in his face. C\'e6\uc0\u383 ar, \
knowing him to be a coward, \uc0\u383 aid, he had be\u383 t take \
. heed the next time he ran away, how he looked back. \
A YOUNG gentlewoman, married to a very wild \
frark, who had made away with a plentiful e\uc0\u383 tate, \
and was reduced to \uc0\u383 ome \u383 treights, \u383 aid very inno- \
cently to him one day, My dear, I want \uc0\u383 ome \u383 hifts \
f:dly.  Zounds, Madam, replied he, how can that \
be, when we make \{o man \
SOME men and their wives; who all lived on the \
\
\
\
\
\
bour's hou\uc0\u383 e; \u383 aid one of the hu\u383 bands, it is re- \
ported that all the men in our row are cuckolds, \
but one. Soon after, his wife being thoughtful, \
what makes you fad, my dear? \uc0\u383 aid he, I hope you \
are notoffended-at what I \uc0\u383 aid? Ne, \u383 aid \u383 he, Im \
only con\uc0\u383 idering who that can be. | \
\
\
A WOMAN profecuted a gentleman for a rape; \
upon tryal the judge a\uc0\u383 ked her, if \u383 he made any re- \
\uc0\u383 i\u383 tance? I cried out, and pica\u383 e your wor\u383 hip, \u383 aid \
the woman. | Ay, \uc0\u383 aid one of the witne\u383 \u383 es, but that \
\
\
was nine months after. \
\
\
A N@QBLE duke, who \uc0\u383 tammered \u383 o much, that \
\
\
he was obliged to have a \uc0\u383 ervant \u383 tand by him to re- \
\
\
peat what he \uc0\u383 aid, a\u383 ked a clergyman at his table, \
by way of joke, if he knew what was the rea\uc0\u383 on that \
Balaam's a\uc0\u383 s \u383 poke? The clergyman not _ \
\
\
\uc0\u383 tanding him, the \u383 ervant repeated what his grace \
\
\
had faid; to which the par\uc0\u383 on plea\u383 antly an\u383 wered, ( \
\
\
7 \
\
\
at the bottom of his table, why the goo\uc0\u383 e, if there \
was one, was always placed next to the par\uc0\u383 on? \
Really, \uc0\u383 aid he, Ican give no rea\u383 on for it ; but your \
que\uc0\u383 tion is \u383 o odd, that I fball never \u383 ee a goo\u383 e for \
the future, without thinking upon your lord\uc0\u383 hip. 2 \
A counNTRYMAN \uc0\u383 owing his field, and two \
\
\
that Balaam \uc0\u383 tuttered, and his a\u383 s \u383 poke for him. \
Tk fame noble duke a\uc0\u383 ked a clergyman once \
\
\
\uc0\u383 mart fellows riding by, one of them called to him \
with an in\uc0\u383 olent air; Well, hone\u383 t countryman, it \
\
\
is your bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s to \u383 ow, but we reap the fruits of \
\
\
your labour. To which the farmer replied, It is \
very likely you may, fer truly 1 am \uc0\u383 owing h \
\
Tur dutche\uc0\u383 s of Newca\u383 tle, who wrote plays and \
romances in king.Ghacles IL time, a\uc0\u383 ked Bi\u383 hop \
Wilkins, How \uc0\u383 he could get up to the world in the \
C 2 \
\
\
THE. LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 5 \
\uc0\u383 ame fide of a \u383 treet, being merry- making at aneigh - \
\
\
\'97 \
\
\
5 "D'EMO'CREIT Us: OR, \
moon which he had di\uc0\u383 covered? for as the j journey \
\
mu\uc0\u383 t needs be very long, there would be no pol\u383 ibi- \
\
lity of going throrgh, without baiting by the way. \
\
Oh! Madam, laid the Bithop, Your grace has built \
\
\uc0\u383 a many ca\u383 tles in the air, you cannot want \'e0 flace \
a h AM. . \'97 en I \
\
BEN John\uc0\u383 on, being one night at the Devil-Ta- \
vern, there was a country gentleman in the com- \
pany, who interrupted all their di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e with an \
account of his lands and tenements; at la\uc0\u383 t Ben, \
unable to bear with it any longer, \uc0\u383 aid, What \u383 ig- \
nifies your dirt and clods to us? where you have \
one acre of land, I have ten acres of wit. Have you \
\uc0\u383 o? replied the countryman, good Mr. Wi\u383 eacre? \
This unexpected repartce from the clown \uc0\u383 truck \
\
Ben mute for \uc0\u383 ome time; why, how now, Ben ? \
\uc0\u383 ays on of the company, you. feem to be quite \
itung? hy, I never was fo ge by a hobnail be- \
Jore, replied he. \
\
A LAWYER, and phy\uc0\u383 ician, having a di\u383 pute a- \
bout precedenc?, referred it to Diogenes, who \
gave it in \uc0\u383 avour of the lawyer, in the\u383 e terms; \
Let the thief go before, and the executioner follow. \
\
-\'bb A MERCBANT-SHEP: being \uc0\u383 everely to\u383 \u383 \'e8d in \
\uc0\u383 torm, and all the crew de\u383 pairing of \u383 afety, betook \
them\uc0\u383 elves to prayers, : except one mariner, wo \
was all the while wi\uc0\u383 hing to \u383 ee two \u383 tars; Oh! \
faid he, that I could but \uc0\u383 ee two \u383 tars, or but one \
of them, He made fo frequent repetition of the\uc0\u383 e \
words, as to di\uc0\u383 turb the meditation of the re\u383 t; at \
length, one of the crew a\uc0\u383 \u322 ked him, what two \u383 tars, \
or what one \uc0\u383 tar he meant? To whom he rep-1ed, \
0h ! that I could \uc0\u383 ee the flar in Cheap\u383 e de, or . in \
\
Coleman: ireet, I care not which. \
A GENTLEKAN went one wet cold 905 into \
\
\
\
\
an inn, in Oxford; :4s firing is very dear there, a \
great many people were in the kitchen; and the fire \
\uc0\u383 o \u383 urrounded he could not get to warmhim. Up- \
cn \uc0\u383 eeing this, he called for the o\u383 tler, and bid him \
fetch half a peck of oy\uc0\u383 ters, and carry to his hor\u383 e. \
Ovtegs.. for. your hor\uc0\u383 e ! fays the fellow, grinning: \
Ii/hat, bells and all! Aye aye, replied the gentle- \
man, carry them ta him unopened. The fellowfetch- \
ed the oy\uc0\u383 ters immediately, brought them to the \
\
\
.gentleman in the kitchen, and a\uc0\u383 ted whether they \
were really to be carried to his hor\uc0\u383 e: For, \u383 ays he, \
\
\
J never \uc0\u383 au a hor\u383 e eat oy\u383 ters in my life. No mat- \
ter far that, replied the gentleman, carry them to \
him. Away he went with the oy\uc0\u383 ters to the hor\u383 e, \
\
\
attended by all the people in the kitchen. In the \
\
\
mean time the gentleman get a rare warm place \
in the chimney corner, which was what he wanted. \
He had net been there long cre the oftler, attend- \
eil by the per\uc0\u383 ons who had left the kitchen, came \
to acquaint him with a piece of intelligence he knew \
\
\
before. Why, Sir, fays he, I have fut the oy\uc0\u383 ters ' \
\
\
into the manger, and the devil o' ene of them will \
\
\
your hor\uc0\u383 e touch. Like enough, rep/icd the gentle- \
\
\
man; why then, as he is not in the humour to eat \
them now, dr you bring the oyfters to me, and give \
my hor\uc0\u383 e half a peck of corn inflead of them. \
\
- WHEN the Duke's army marched towards E. \
dinburgh, in 1745, \uc0\u383 ome of the trcops being quar- \
tered at an inn in the North Riding cf Vork\uc0\u383 hire, \
the ho\uc0\u383 t expre\u383 \u383 ed a great veneration for the wilita- \
ry; \uc0\u383 aying, he thought them the only bulwarks of \
the nation, and he particularly expre\uc0\u383 icd his regard \
to one corporal, to whom he gave an invitation to \
his bou\uc0\u383 e, and begged, upon his return, he, would \
come and fix his laurels for a we- kat his hou\uc0\u383 e; \
\
\
\
Aaying, among\uc0\u383 t other civil things, that the \u383 oldiers \
were the pillars of the \uc0\u383 tate. Some time after, the \
corporal having a little \uc0\u383 pare time upon his hands, \
and being in that part of the country, he paid a vi- \
Ht to his former ho\uc0\u383 t, when he met with a very cold \
reception. The corporal, who was not a little net- \
tled at his landlord's behaviour, reminded him, that \
he \uc0\u383 hould not have troubled him upon this occafi- \
on, had he not been fo. urgently pre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed the la\u383 t \
time-he was that way, and had not his ho\uc0\u383 t been fo \
particularly civil to the military, as to \uc0\u383 ay he look- \
ed upon them as the pillars of the nation. That is \
very true, replied the ho\uc0\u383 t; but then I meant the \
Caterpillar: of the nation. | \
Quin the player, famous for his repartees, di- \
ned in the country with a certain great duke, who \
made an apology for treating his gue\uc0\u383 ts only with \
\
\
port wine, becau\uc0\u383 e his butler had lo\u383 t the key of his \
\
\
.claret cellar. After dinner, he took them into the \
garden to \uc0\u383 hew them an o\u383 trich; and, among o- \
ther \uc0\u383 trange qualities which appertained to that \
creature, told them it could dige\uc0\u383 t iron. Then, \
my lord, fays Quin, I luppo\uc0\u383 e it was he that N. \
\
\
lowed the hey of your grace cellar. \
\
\
Miss , who\uc0\u383 e character has been made a \
little free with, being at a public place, tript and \
fell upon her back; but recovering her\uc0\u383 elf immedi- \
ately, \uc0\u383 ome of the company obferved with what agi- \
lity \uc0\u383 he fprung up, and how little confu\u383 ion \u383 he was \
in; to which a gentleman only an\uc0\u383 wered m, \
Practice makes perfect. \
\
A CLERGCYMAN. of a facetious turn of nd \
who lived in Su\uc0\u383 \u383 ex, a (coa\u383 t on which \u383 hipwrecks \
have frequently happened; and where, upon \uc0\u383 uch \
occa\uc0\u383 ions, the inhabitants, in\u383 tead of a\u383 \u383 i\u383 ting the \
\
\
\
\
they could lay hands on, and treat the people il]; \
and were \uc0\u383 o keen at the news of a wreck, that they \
would leave all manner of butneis. to plunder. A \
misfortune of this kind happening one Sunday, du - \
ring the time of divine \uc0\u383 ervice, the alarm was given, \
A wreck! a wreck! upon which they began to \
\uc0\u383 camper out with great precipitation; which our \
par\uc0\u383 cn perceiving, opened the pulpit door, and \
walking down the \uc0\u383 tairs, called out at the\u383 ametime, \
with a loud voice, Brethren, let me intreat you to \
\
\
hear five words more. They turned about with im- \
patient attention, to hear what the preacher had to \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ay; who making ha\u383 tily up to them, \u383 aid, Let ws \
\
\
all flart fair : which odd behaviour had the de \
red-effect; as he meant only to go with them, in | \
\
\
order to prevent their abu\uc0\u383 ing the \u383 hip's crew, which \
oitcn happened, \
\
On Mr. Garrick's playing Romeo, and Mr. \
Barry's being at Covent-garden, who always play'd \
the part at Drury-lane before; when Juliet in the \
\
\
garden \uc0\u383 cene cried, Gh! Rameo, Romeo, therefore \
\
\
art thou Romeo? a \uc0\u383 cllow from the upper gallery \
bauled out, Becau\uc0\u383 e Bzrry's gone tothe other Ae \
by G- d. \
\
Ox the death of the late -lorious rg William, \
and the acce\uc0\u383 non of gucen Anne ts the tlnene of \
\
\
the\uc0\u383 e realms, a young clergyman, wha talents \
\
\
were purely evangeic, a\uc0\u383 ked a friend what aiterats- \
ons were nec\{ary to be made in reading the pray- \
ers of the church upon that occa\uc0\u383 ion ? His friend \
\
\
an\uc0\u383 wered, no other than that where he \u383 \'e6id king be- \
fore, he. mu\uc0\u383 t then \u383 ay qucen; and where he \u383 aid \
\
\
lard, he mu\uc0\u383 t fay lady: our Levite went away well \
edi\uc0\u383 ted by his friend's in\u383 truction\u281 , as you lahear; \
| C 4 \
\
\
\
unfcrtunate in their di\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s, u\u383 ed to plunder all \
\
\
\
\
\uc0\u383 or, the next Sunday, when he was reading divine \
\uc0\u383 ervice, and came to this prayer, Almighty king of \
kings, and lord of lords, he, with an audible voice, \
began, Almighty queen of queens, and lady of ladies, \
Tur \uc0\u383 ame hopeful parion u\u383 ed to be very pro- \
lix in his fermone, which many of his congregation \
_ complained of; among the ret his mother once \
took him to ta\uc0\u383 \u322  about it; upon which he told her, \
that he did not know when to leave off, Well \
then, my dear, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, take notice of me, and I \
Will, when I think your \uc0\u383 ermon has been long e- \
nough, put my finger up to. my no\uc0\u383 e, after which \
you mu\uc0\u383 t take the fir\u383 t opportunity to conclude. \
- Accordingly, the next \uc0\u383 ermon day, his mother was \
in her \uc0\u383 eat at church, which \u383 tood ju\u383 t oppo\u383 ite the \
pulpit, from whence her fon had a full view of her, \
and watched for the \uc0\u383 ignal; this \u383 he unfortunately \
gave, ju\uc0\u383 t as he was telling his hearers, what vir- \
tues were nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary for themmto practice: and that \
if they \uc0\u383 ailed to do them, they would certainly be \
damned, which, \uc0\u383 ays he, (in con\u383 equence of his \
mother's \uc0\u383 ign) That you- may all be, God of his infi- \
nite mercy grant, \
A $CHOOL-MASTER being very angry one day \
with one of his young \uc0\u383 hots for writing his name \
upon the wain\uc0\u383 cct, was going to whip Bi but \
the. boy begging ca 3 the ma\uc0\u383 ter \u383 aid, He's a \
' Jool, and ever \uc0\u383 hall, that writes his name upon a \
IFall; \uc0\u383 irrah, what fay you to that? To which the \
lad made an\uc0\u383 wer, He's a fool, and ever. \u383 hall, that \
takes a Wain\uc0\u383 cet for a Mall. \
Asche AR riding along the read, upon a pity- \
ful tir'd jade, by chance a po\uc0\u383 t came riding that \
way, as he lay digging with his \uc0\u383 purs to make way, \
but he \uc0\u383 tirred not; \u383 ays the gentlemen ta him, do \
\
\
\
\
\
not you \uc0\u383 ee, Sir, Tride po\u383 t, and do not you fee, \u383 ays \
the \uc0\u383 cholar, that I ride uon a pojt ? a \
A DRUNKEN fellow was brought before a ju - \
lice, and what que\uc0\u383 tion \u383 oever the ju\u383 tice a\u383 ked \
him, he till faid, Tour wor\uc0\u383 hip's wi\u383 e. Then he ' \
committed him till the next day; then \uc0\u383 ent for him | \
again, and told him of his idle talking ye\uc0\u383 terday. \
Why, what did I fay? Why, what\uc0\u383 oever I \u383 aid to \
you, you \uc0\u383 till \u383 aid, Dar wor/brp*s wi\u383 e, that Tthought \
thou wert mad. Truly, \uc0\u383 ays he, if I faid fo, I think: \
[ was mad indeed; 11 \
' A counrRYMAN that lived at London three \
years, when he went home, a friend a\uc0\u383 ked him, If \
he \uc0\u383 aw Whitehall? No, fays he; nor the Tower? 27 \
"\uc0\u383 ays the other; No, oye he; \u383 trange, \u383 aid the o \
\
\
ther, what could be the rea\uc0\u383 on of it? Why, truly. \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ays he, the heeper of Newgate was fo cro\u383 s a fel \
low; he would not let me aut to \uc0\u383 ee any thing. \
\
A DocrroR in Oxford, et his own'charges, was: \
mending the cau\uc0\u383 eway; and a nobleman riding by, \
\
\
faid, How now, doctor! I \uc0\u383 ee you are mending o \
\
\
\
\
highway, but it is not the highway to heaven, No, \
my lord, \uc0\u383 ays he, if it were, I \u383 hould have wonder \
ed to have \uc0\u383 een you come this way. ; \
LoRD B. \'84on tran\uc0\u383 acting his admi\u383 \u383 ion to a. \
night's lodging with, the celebrated Mrs. C | \
3 \
\
\
who kept \uc0\u383 ome years ago a coffee-hou\u383 e in- \
and whe\uc0\u383 e \u383 tated price was fi\u383 ty por nds, gare her \
a banker's note for the \uc0\u383 um, with which, upon \
looking into it, and \uc0\u383 eeing the amount fairly \u383 peci-- \
fed, \uc0\u383 he was contented. That \{he might then do \
things with \uc0\u383 ome con\u383 cience, \u383 he threw into th. \
\
\
bargain an elegant \uc0\u383 upper. But when \u383 he came to \
\
make u\uc0\u383 e of her note, \u383 he found that forty-eight: | \
\
pour ds were difcountc4 by a receipt on the back cf. 1 \
1 \
\
\
it, which had e\uc0\u383 caped her ob\u383 ervation. This was \
\
\
ca\uc0\u383 e of Turk contra Arab. \
A YOUNG man who had ju\uc0\u383 t come out of a \u383 ali- \
\
\
vation, being met by a friend, who a\uc0\u383 ked him, why \
he looked \uc0\u383 o pale and wan, an\u383 wered, it was owing \
to his having vi\uc0\u383 ited the fick, \
\
\
 Lapy T- -, \uc0\u383 aying to her hufband, that \u383 he was \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ure, if \u383 he died, rather than live (\u383 ingle, he would \
\
\
:arry, though it were the Devil's daughter; No, \
\
 he, Madam, bowing re\uc0\u383 pectfully, 7 \u383 bould not \
\
\
u\uc0\u383 e to marry twice into the \u383 ame family. \
TEE cu\uc0\u383 tom ofa felon's holding up his hand at \
\
\
the bar of ju\uc0\u383 tice is derived from the Druids, who \
= made u\uc0\u383 e of that ceremony as the \u383 ymbol of their \
\
Integrity and good faith, and an atte\uc0\u383 tation of the \
truth of their plea. \
\
\
A FRENCH author gives the following n \
\
\
why men of wit are \uc0\u383 o often the dupes of fools. \
Tho\uc0\u383 e, \u383 ays he, who pique them\u383 elves upon wit, \
throw it all into their conver\uc0\u383 ation and writings, \
without re\uc0\u383 erving any for their conduct; whereas \
fools throw all the little they have into their con- \
duct, by which means 7 are an overmatch for \
the Wits. \
\
\
Ir was faid of a woman of the town, by a rake \
\
\
no knew her, and \uc0\u383 aw her in a pri\u383 on, that \u383 he had \
\
now \uc0\u383 een the four ages: the golden one, when her \
favours would procure her a guinea; the filver one, \
when they came down to half a crown; the brazen \
\
one, when \uc0\u383 he was not beneath accepting copper; \
and at length the iron one, now \uc0\u383 he was reduced to \
look through a pri\uc0\u383 on window. \
\
\
A YOUNG gentleman from the enivcciite; on \
\
\
paying a vi\uc0\u383 it to a lady, a relation of his in the coun- \
try, found her in great affliction for the lo\uc0\u383 s of a \
\
\
ws \
\
\
\
\
diamond ring of con\uc0\u383 iderable value. She was po- \
\uc0\u383 itive that \u383 ome of the \u383 ervants mu\u383 t have get it, \
but to whom to lay it \uc0\u383 he did not know. 'Theyuung \
gentleman, on hearing the circumitances, undet - \
took the recovery of it, provided the lady would hu- \
mour the \uc0\u383 tratagem he propo\u383 ed to make u\u383 e of. Bhe \
readily con\uc0\u383 ented, At dinner, therefore, the di\u383 - \
cour\uc0\u383 e turning upon the lo\u383 s, the \u383 cholar Ecaited \u383 o \
much of his \uc0\u383 kill in the black-art, that \u383 he, as they, \
had previou\uc0\u383 ly agreed, de\u383 ired him to exert it for \
the di\uc0\u383 covery of the per\u383 on who had ftolen her ring. \
He promi\uc0\u383 ed her he would; and after dinner, or- \
dered a white cock to be got (no other colour would \
do) and a kettle to be placed on a table in the hal. \
The cock he told them was to be put under the ket- \
tle; and all the \uc0\u383 ervants, one after another, were \
\
\
to touch it, and that 2s \uc0\u383 oon as the guilty per\u383 on \
\
\
\uc0\u383 hould lay his hand upon it, the cock would crow \
three times. Every thing being thus prepared with \
the greate\uc0\u383 t \u383 olemnity, the young gentleman began \
\
\
the \uc0\u383 cene. - The ball was darkened, and the pro- \
ce\uc0\u383 \u383 ion began. As \u383 oon as they had every one de- \
clared. that they had fulilled the direction and \
touched the cock, the light was re\uc0\u383 tored, and the \
gentleman examined every one of their hands, and \
\
\
found them all \uc0\u383 mutted, except one, who had taken \
care not to touch the kettle, and was beginning to \
hug him\uc0\u383 el\u383  \u383 or having cutwitted the cor jurer. Up- \
on this circum\uc0\u383 tance, the gentleman charged him \
\
\
clo\uc0\u383 ely with the the\u383 t: he could not deny it, and on \
\
\
his knees afked pardon; which the lady, upcn his \
re\uc0\u383 toring the ring, granted him.. bh \
\
A GENTLEMAN of diftinQion: being irtiodu- \
ced to the Bi\uc0\u383 hop of Wirtemberg, when he was at \
\
\
table with his couit, the Bi\uc0\u383 kon fail to kim, \'de \
\
\
me here with my flock about me. The gentleman, \
who ob\uc0\u383 erved large gla\u383 \u383 es moving briskly about in \
the German way, an\uc0\u383 wered, Yes, my lord, and if \
rou do not feed your flock well, You at lea\uc0\u383 t take \
care it \uc0\u383 hall drink well. \
A. COXCOMB was bent upon reading a copy of \
ver\uc0\u383 es to a friend of his at a tavern, the other, after \
- undergoing the per\uc0\u383 ecution of hearing the cold \
wretched \uc0\u383 tuff, took the paper out of his hand, and \
gravely twi\uc0\u383 ting it, held. it to the candle, in order \
to light his pipe with it: Zounds, \uc0\u383 aid the poet, \
what are you doing with my ver\uc0\u383 es? Only, replied \
tis friend, gruing them fire, which they very much \
want. \
LIBERTY has in all countries her votaries. Au\'97 \
gu\uc0\u383 tus, king of Poland, returning from his eleQc- \
rate of Saxony into that kingdom, and pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing with- \
in half a mile of Gornitz, one of his \{frontier-towns, \
his po\uc0\u383 tillion, to avoid a bad piece of road, was \
going to drive over the plowed ground of a farmer, \
who perceiving it, boldly \uc0\u383 cized the reins of the \
-fore-hor\uc0\u383 e, and threatened to cut the \u383 pokes of the \
wheels with a \uc0\u383 trong-ax, with which be was armed, \
if the coach did net return into the high-roadz up- \
on this two guards of his Poli\uc0\u383 h maje\u383 ty came up, \
and were going to cha\uc0\u383 ti\u383 e the farmer, when the \
king, after inquiring into the cau\uc0\u383 e of the di\u383 pute, \
\uc0\u383 orbad the lea\u383 t violence to be offered to the pea\u383 ant, \
commented his re\uc0\u383 olution, and having made him \
a pre\uc0\u383 \'e6nt cf \u383 ome money, ordered the po\u383 tillion to \
take the u\uc0\u383 ual road, \u383 aying, That a king bad nomore \
right than the m\uc0\u281 ane\u383 t of his \u383 ubjects to wrong any \
N one, in breach of the laws that As both king \
14 and \uc0\u383 ubject. \
1 Ong telling Taflo the peet, that an enemy of \
\
\
* * \
\
\
\
bis abu\uc0\u383 ed him every where; it is better, \u383 aid Ta\u383 - \
\
\
111 the world \uc0\u383 peak ill of me to him. \
\
CHARLES V. who was remarkable for his ac- \
<uainizance with all ranks of life, upon a vi\uc0\u383 it to \
dne Com:nican cloi\uc0\u383 ters in Vienna, overtcok a coun- \
try farmer carrying a pig to market, the \uc0\u383 queaking \
of which was very difagreeable to him; at length \
not able to endure it, he \uc0\u383 aid to the farmer, Friend, \
cannot you filence your pig? The fellow ingenu- \
cully confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed he did not know how: then \u383 ays the \
2mperor, hold it by the tail, and you will find it \
w 11 \uc0\u383 gueak no longer. The \u383 ellow did fo, and it \
ai the propo\uc0\u383 ed effect: upon. which the farmer \
Hoking orchly upon the emperor, \uc0\u383 aid, Whoever yeu \
ac, it ig lain you have learnt this trade better \
than I have. \
\
\
A GENTLEMAN telling a friend cf his that he \
\
\
wondered he did not lay up money, when to his \
-rowledge he had eight hundred a-year, and did \
not appear to \uc0\u383 pend above two; your \u383 urprize, faid \
the other, will cea\uc0\u383 e, when you know how my e- \
ate goes. I emplcy two hundred in paying what \
\{ owe, I lend two hundred, I \uc0\u383 pend two hundred, \
and I lo\uc0\u383 e two hundred. The two hundred I pay, \
are what I allow my \uc0\u383 ather and mother, who are \
roor; the two hundred I lend, are laid out in the \
education of my. children, who J hope will return \
it me; the two hundred I \uc0\u383 pend are in nece\u383 \u383 aries \
\uc0\u383 or my family; and the two hundred. I lofe, are \
con\uc0\u383 umed by my wife in dre\u383 s and plea\u383 ure. \
\
DR. Swift being one day at a vi\uc0\u383 itation-dinner, \
a clergyman, who valued him\uc0\u383 elf more upon his wit \
than he ought, and often mi\uc0\u383 took a rough kind of \
abu\uc0\u383 e for keen raillery, tcok it into his head to exer- \
\
\
ohe \uc0\u383 hould \u383 peak ill of me to all the world, than \
\
ci\uc0\u383 e his talents upon the Dean, and did \u383 o very li- \
\
\
centiou\uc0\u383 ly. The Dean heard him as calmly as if \
\
\
| he had not heard him; not taking the lea\uc0\u383 t notice, \
\
\
nor making any kind of anfwer to any thing that \
\
\
he \uc0\u383 aid. At length the Bi\u383 hop interpo\u383 ed, and \
\
\
checked the petulance of the Snarl (for that was \
\
\
the name he was known by). The Dean immedi- \
ately got up, and begged that no re\uc0\u383 traint might be \
laid upon the gentleman; Momus, my lord, was al- \
ways admitted to the feats of the Gods, and Ie \
leged to jay what he plea\uc0\u383 ed there. \
\
LoRD Faulkland was much di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed by his \
extraordinary parts and heroic \uc0\u383 pirit: he was elect- \
\
\
ed very young a member of the Hou\uc0\u383 e of Com- \
\
\
mons; his admi\uc0\u383 hon into which was oppo\u383 ed by \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ome of the old members, who \u383 aid, he had not yet \
% his wild ats. Upon which my lord replied, \
it would be the be\uc0\u383 t way then to \u383 ou them in the \
\
\
hou\uc0\u383 e, where there were \u383 q many gee\u383 e to pick them \
\
\
\'84 | \
Soo after the Earl of ch d came into the \
\
\
Prixy- council, a place of great tru\uc0\u383 t happened to be- \
\
\
come vacant, to which his maje\uc0\u383 ty and the Duke of \
\
\
\
Dor\uc0\u383 et recommended two very different per\u383 ons. \
His maje\uc0\u383 ty e\u383 pou\u383 ed the intere\u383 t of his friend with \
\uc0\u383 ome heat, and told them, he would be abeyed; but \
not being able to fucceed, heleft the Council-cham- \
ber in great di\uc0\u383 plea\u383 ure. As \u383 oon as he retired, \
\
\
the matter was debated warmly, but at length it was \
carried again\uc0\u383 t the king: however, in the humour \
\
\
his maje\uc0\u383 ty was then in, a que\u383 tion. aro\u383 e, who \
\uc0\u383 hould carry the grant of the o\u383 fice for his maje\u383 ty \
to \uc0\u383 ign; and the lot fell on Lord Ch\'97\'97d. His \
lordihip expecting to find his maje\uc0\u383 ty in a very un- \
favourable mood, (as it accordingly happened) pru- \
\
\
dently forbore to incen\uc0\u383 e him by an abrupt reque\u383 t, \
and in\uc0\u383 tead of bluntly a\u383 king him to \u383 ign the in\u383 tru- \
ment, very \uc0\u383 ubmi\u383 \u383 ively a\u383 ked who\u383 e name his ma- \
je\uc0\u383 ty would be plea\u383 ed to have in\u383 erted, to fill up the \
blanks. The king an\uc0\u383 wered, in a pation, the De- \
vil's if you will. Very well, replied his lord\uc0\u383 hip; \
but would your maje\uc0\u383 ty have the in\u383 trument run itt \
the u\uc0\u383 ual \u383 tyle, *\'a9 Our truly and well-beloved Cou\u383 in \
and Coun\uc0\u383 ellor ?\'93 The king laughed, and with all \
the good nature in the world \uc0\u383 et his name to the \
paper, though to promote a per\uc0\u383 on not very accep- \
S table to him\uc0\u383 elf. \
\
\
, A $MART fellow cro\uc0\u383 \u383 ing a late king in his \
. hanting, he rides after him with his \uc0\u383 word drawn: \
Y Pray, Sir, \uc0\u383 ays he, do nat knight me before my elder \
4 brother is dead, for I am but a younger brother: \
, which turned the king's fury into a fit of laughter. \
e A GENTLEMAN going to take water at White- \
7 hall-\uc0\u383 tairs, cried ont, as he came near the place, \
Who can fwim ? I, ma\uc0\u383 ter, \u383 aid forty bawling mouths; \
C when the gentleman ob\uc0\u383 erving one flinking away, \
\'a3 called after him; but the fellow turning about, \
of faid, Sir, I cannot \uc0\u383 wim; then you are my man, \
a. \uc0\u383 aid the gentleman, for you will at leaft take care \
th of me for your own fake. \
ut AN hone\uc0\u383 t bluff country farmer meeting the par- \
* \uc0\u383 on of the pari\u383 h in a bye - lane, and not giving him \
d, the way \uc0\u383 o readily as he expected, the par\u383 on, with \
2 an erected cre\uc0\u383 t, told him, that he was better fed \
\
\
ur than taught. Very true, indeed, replied the \uc0\u383 armer, \
ho fer you teach me, and I feed my\uc0\u383 elf. \
\
\
ity A FRENCHMAN, who \uc0\u383 poke very bad Engli\u383 h, \
Iis having \uc0\u383 ome words with his wife, endeavoured to \
in- call her'bitch, but could not recollect the name; at \
\
\
u- I li\uc0\u383 t he theught he had done it, by faying, Begar, \
\
\
oor It \
5. at\'94 \
\
\
, \
my deare, but you be vone vile dag ge . Aye, that's \
true enough, an\uc0\u383 wered the woman, the more's my \
misfortune. \
\
A PooR, but worthy clergyman, who polle\uc0\u383 \u383 ed \
only a \uc0\u383 mall lecture\u383 hip, from the income of which. \
he had a large family to maintain, had been under \
the nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ity, through fome expen\u383 ive family \u383 ick- \
ne\uc0\u383 \u383 es, &c. of contracting debts with \u383 everal in the \
Pari\uc0\u383 h, and, being unable to an\u383 wer their demands, \
ab\uc0\u383 conded tor \u383 ome time, for fear of being trou- \
bled; and in \uc0\u383 hort, was \u383 o a\u383 hamed of facing his \
creditors, that he even prevailed with a friend th \
ofliciate for him on Sundays. However, con\uc0\u383 ider- \
ing this method of life could not la\uc0\u383 t long, he took \
courage, and re\uc0\u383 olved to preach the following Sun- \
day before his pari\uc0\u383 hioners; when he took his text \
from the New Te\uc0\u383 tament, in the\u383 e worCs, Have pa- \
tience with me, and I witl pay you all. He divid- \
ed his di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e into two general heads; fir\u383 t, Have \
patience, \uc0\u383 econdly, and I will pay you all; he then \
\
\
* . expatiated very largely and elegantly on that mo\uc0\u383 t \
\
\
Chri\uc0\u383 tian virtue, Patience; after which, and now, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, having done with my fir\u383 t head, viz, have \
+ . patience, I came to my \uc0\u383 econd and laft general head, \
which is, and I will pay you all; \'97 ut that 7 mu\uc0\u383 t \
- defer to another opportunity, Which excellent con- \
| clufion \uc0\u383 o plea\u383 ed his creditors, that they gave him \
his own time to pay his Cebts, a\uc0\u383 \u383 uring him that \
they would never trouble kim mote. = \
\
*  ParRIck M*Blunder, a poor fellow from the \
north of Ireland, came into England to \uc0\u383 eek a fer: \
vice; an\{ a\uc0\u383 ter having \u383 taid here \u383 ome con\u383 iderable \
time, re\uc0\u383 olved to revi\u383 it his own country. It hap- \
pened one day, that meeting with an old acquain+ \
tance, he taok him to a public \'b7 hov\uc0\u383 e to treat him \
\
\
\
with \uc0\u383 omething to drink; and after much conver- \
fation between them concerning the wonders which \
Patrick had \uc0\u383 een in England, he called for change \
for a guinea, which very much \uc0\u383 urprized his com- \
panionz (for guineas are very \uc0\u383 trange things in the \
north of Ireland). At length recovering from his \
fright, he calls cut, Arrah, my dear Paddy, vat 1th \
dat you have got? I\uc0\u383 h it a raal guinea now? Yes, \
replied Patrick, it is a good guinca, and 1 have \uc0\u383 e- \
veral more at home, honey. And where did you \
get them, joy? Why, in England, \uc0\u383 ays Patrick. \
\
\
In England! And are there any more of em dere, \
\
\
now? By my \uc0\u383 houl, replies Patrick, but they are \
\uc0\u383 o plenty, dat a man cannot receive forty or fifty \
\uc0\u383 hillings, but he is _ to take ten or dozen of. \
them. 1 \
\
A rackrious canon of Wind\uc0\u383 or, taking his \
evening- walk as u\uc0\u383 ual into the town, met one of the \
vicars at the ca\uc0\u383 tle- gate, returning home \u383 omewhat \
elevated with generous port; So, \uc0\u383 ays the canon, \
from whence come you? I don't know, Mr. Canon, \
replies the vicar; I have been \uc0\u383 pinning out this af \
ternoon with a few friends., Ay, and now, tay the \
canon, yor are reeling it home. \
\
ONE Mr. Man, ma\uc0\u383 ter of a \u383 hip called the Moon, \
u\uc0\u383 ed to lie with a gentlewoman, and her hu\u383 band \
\
taxed her with another gentleman; ihe \uc0\u383 wore \u383 he \
knew him no more than \uc0\u383 he did the Man in the \
Moon. \
\
A YOUNG man married a pecvith woman, who \
was not content with her hu\uc0\u383 band's kind u\u383 age, but \
complained to her father \uc0\u383 till, which tired him qu\u297 te \
out. A little after, her hu\uc0\u383 band, to break her hu- \
mour, \uc0\u383 truck her, and \u383 he ran to her father. He, \
willing to reform her, lac'd her \uc0\u383 ides well with a \
\
\
\
\
\
holly- crap, \uc0\u383 aying, Commend me to thy hu\u383 band, \
\
\
and tell him I am now even with him; for / Fg \
\
\
cudgelled his wife, as well as he has beat my daugh- \
Ter. \
\
\
SIR Thomas Moor had many daughters, but no \
\
\
ion, \uc0\u383 o that his wife did often wi\u383 h for a boy; which \
\
\
at la\uc0\u383 t \u383 he had, but he was very \u383 imple: ah, wife, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, thou ha\u383 t often wi\u383 hed for a boy, and now \
\
\
thou ha\uc0\u383 t one, and he will never be any thing el\u383 e \
\
\
but a boy. \
\
AGENTLEMAN riding, had a dog named Cue- \
kold, who ran after a proud bitch into an entry. \
He then cried out, Cuckold, Cuckold: The woman \
came out and told him he was a rogue to call het \
hu\uc0\u383 band Cuckold: No, \u383 ays he, I call not him, but \
my dog: 'The more. knave you, \uc0\u383 ays W to call a \
\
\
dog by a ee body's name. \
\
\
A LAWYER's man asked him bat was the \
\
\
\uc0\u383 tconge\u383 t point in law? He told him, good and \
\uc0\u383 ufficient witncis: for which advice his man was \
to pay for his charges that night; \uc0\u383 o he be\u383 poke \
good cheer purpo\uc0\u383 ely, and left his man in the morn- \
ing to pay the reckoning: but the man left his \
ma\uc0\u383 ter's cloak for the reckoning. That day it be- \
gan to rain, and his ma\uc0\u383 ter called for his cloak: Sir, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ays he, I have left it for the reckoning. Why, \u383 ir- \
\
\
rah, \uc0\u383 ays he, were you nct to pay it, by our la\u383 t a- \
greement? True, Sir, \uc0\u383 ays he, I do confe\u383 s it be- \
\
\
tween us two: but where is your good and \uc0\u383 ufficient \
\
\
witne\uc0\u383 s to carry it? - \
\
\
- A. RICH bithop's Reward told his lord, that his \
\
\
- \uc0\u383 ervants were too many, and that his e\u383 tate would \
\
\
not hold out. Well, \uc0\u383 ays he, give me a note of all \
that are nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, and all that are \u383 uperiuous: \
which when he had read, Well \uc0\u383 ays he, let the ici \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 67 \
\
\
remain, becau\uc0\u383 e I have need of them; and the re\u383 t \
\uc0\u383 hall \u383 tay, becau\u383 e. they need me. - \
\
IN a country town, a complaint was made to \
the ju\uc0\u383 tice, that the drink was made too \u383 trong: \
after they had \uc0\u383 at two days about it, they ordered \
that \uc0\u383 mall beer \u383 hould be brewed: which a mad \
fellow hearing, came and a\uc0\u383 ked them, whether they \
had fat two days about the brewing of \uc0\u383 mall drink? \
They \uc0\u383 aid, yes. Why then, \u383 ays he, you may \u383 it \
three days more to know who will drink it, for JI. \
drink none of it. \
\
SOME tylers working on the top of a hou\uc0\u383 e, one \
\
by chance dropt down through the rafters: Says \
one, I like \uc0\u383 uch a fellow dearly, for he is one that \
\
\
goes through his work. \
\
\
. A FAT man riding upon a lean hor\uc0\u383 e, was ask- \
ed, Why he was \uc0\u383 o fat, and the hor\u383 e \u383 o lean? \u383 aid, \
Becau\uc0\u383 e I look to my\u383 elf, and my man to my hor\u383 e. \
\
A Man, on his death: bed, bequeathed all he \
had to his three \uc0\u383 ons: to the fir\u383 t he gave all his \
\
\
land, for he \uc0\u383 aid he had been very dutiful; but he \
\
\
faid, he hoped his father would live to enjoy it all \
\
\
him\uc0\u383 elf; to the \u383 econd he gave all his money and \
\
\
goods, for he had been dutiful al\uc0\u383 o; and he wi\u383 hed \
\
\
his father might live and enjoy it all him\uc0\u383 elf: and \
\
\
to the third he \uc0\u383 aid, thou ha\u383 t been a villain, a rogue, \
\
\
and a vagabond; I fir\uc0\u383 t give to thee the benefit of \
\
\
the \uc0\u383 tocks, to keep beth thy legs warm; and next, \
Bridewell, where thou fhalt dine upon free co\uc0\u383 t \
with Mr, La\uc0\u383 hington every day, and then I be\u383 tow \
\
\
.the gallows upon thee at la\uc0\u383 t, Truly, father, fays \
\
\
he, I thank you, and / _ ket live to enjoy them \
\
\
all your\uc0\u383 elf. - \
\
\
Ones boked a painter 111 he drew \uc0\u383 uch excellent \
piltures, \uc0\u383 eeing he got \u383 uch ugly children? Faith, \
\
\
68 DEMO OGRI TUS: oR, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ays he, it is becau\u383 e I make the one in the night, the. \
\
\
. in the day.. \
\
' A GENTLEMAN dying, \uc0\u383 ays a Tecuit, Sir, [ hope \
vou will give to our convent \uc0\u383 uch a ground, and \
\uc0\u383 uch. a field, and \u383 uch a manner. Les, \u383 ays he: \
but his jon and heir \uc0\u383 tanding by, \u383 earing all would \
be given from him, (for the prie\uc0\u383 t \u383 aid, the la\u383 t will \
of the dead muit be obeyed) \uc0\u383 aid, father, \u383 hall I \
break the Je\uc0\u383 uit's neck down \u383 tairs? Yes, \u383 ays he, \
for the la\uc0\u383 t will of the dead mu\u383 t be obeyed; and \u383 o \
he pre\uc0\u383 ently threw him down \u383 tairs. \
\
A GENTLEMAN, \uc0\u383 u\u383 pected to be a Roman-Ca- \
tholic, was convened; before a ju\uc0\u383 tice of peace, wha \
\
\
bid him call the Pope knave: Sir, \uc0\u383 aid he, \u383 hould . \
\
\
I call him knave I never \uc0\u383 aw? But if I knew him \
asc uell as I do your. es Pd call him \uc0\u383 o a thcu- \
fand times. \
\
ArELLow cams into an inn, and called for fix \
loaves, then for fix cans of beer; and for each can \
he gave them a loaf. Hz asked, what's to pay? \
They \uc0\u383 aid, \u383 ixpence For what? For beer, replied \
they. Why, had you not bread for your beer? \
Wny then, for bread, \uc0\u383 aid they: \'97 you. had your \
bread again. \
\
One at confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion told his gho\u383 tiy father, that his \
chiefe\uc0\u383 t fin was, that the 1a\u383 t Lent he tbrew into the \
Jakes a gammon of bacon which a friend \uc0\u383 ent him, \
which he dur\uc0\u383 t not eat, being Lent-time, The fry- \
er told him he did ill, he \uc0\u383 hould rather have given \
it to the poor, or eat it him\uc0\u383 elf. Truly, father, \u383 ays \
he, 1 thought \uc0\u383 o; for J firft eat it, 1 then Red it \
into the Jakes, \
\
A TRAVELLER in a 1 * coming to a \
kitchen- fire, \uc0\u383 tood \u383 o near, that he burnt his boots; \
which the turn-\uc0\u383 pit boy \u383 eeing, \u383 aid, Sir, you'U burn \
\
\
your \uc0\u383 purs pre\u383 ently. My boots thou meane\u383 t, boy. \
\
\
No, Sir, \uc0\u383 ays he, they are burnt already. \
SOME women re\uc0\u383 olved to abu\u383 e two \u383 ryers, \u383 or \
\
\
they laid a hog under the table, \uc0\u383 aying, it was che \
\
\
woman's dead hu\uc0\u383 band, and they were to \u383 ing a \
dirge for his \uc0\u383 oul; during the \u383 ervice, the women \
tittered and laughed; which one of the fryers \uc0\u383 py- \
ing, whil\uc0\u383 t they went into the next room to laugh \
out, the fryers took up the cloth, \uc0\u383 aw the hog, and \
\
\
that they were abu\uc0\u383 ed, took him up, and carried \
\
\
him quite away: which the women \uc0\u383 eeing, called \
after. them; but they \uc0\u383 aid, It was a brother of theirs, \
and mu\uc0\u383 t be buried in their convent. \
\
ONE who was but poor in cloaths, but of a \
haughty mind, was boa\uc0\u383 ting of his gentility, and \
from what a noble hou\uc0\u383 e he was de\u383 cended : which \
one over-hearing, and being wearied with his bab- \
\
\
bling, \uc0\u383 aid, what a noi\u383 e is here with your gentili- \
\
\
ty and nobility! when I can make it appear, our \
miller's hor\uc0\u383 e is the better gentleman of the two; \
for you \uc0\u383 hall never \u383 ee him go abread without a man \
to wait upen him. \
\
\
Orr pa\uc0\u383 ling by a fellow that was deformed, but \
\
\
in deri\uc0\u383 ion, began to praite his arms, legs, face, and \
\
\
other parts of his body, which the fellow well per- \
cciving, and knowing him\uc0\u383 elf abu\u383 ed, \u383 aid, that he \
had one property more, which the other had taken \
no notice of; and being demanded what it was, \
\
\
looking over his \uc0\u383 houlder upon the other, he \u383 aid, \
Tins, Sir, is my property, I have a wall-eye in my \
\
\
bead, with which I never lock over my Any but \
\
\
Ii\uc0\u383 ey aq knave. \
\
\
A:ENIGET in Warw iokfliire; that was very ban \
\
\
\uc0\u383 pitallle, e\u383 pecially at Chri\u383 tmas, when he always in- \
vited all his tenants to dinner; which \uc0\u383 aid knight \
\
\
\
had always a jackanapes tied at his parlour-door, \
and as the country women came in, he would \
\uc0\u383 natch at their petticoats, and then grin in their fa- \
\
\
ces; which a di\uc0\u383 creet woman ob\u383 erving, a\u383 ked what' \
\
\
it was? She was told, he was a jackanapes: with \
that, as he came by the parlour-door, \uc0\u383 he makes \
\
\
him a low court'\uc0\u383 ie, and \u383 ays, By your leave. good \
\
\
Mr. Jan-anapes: with that, he plucked and grin- \
ned at her more than all the re\uc0\u383 t : Fie, fie, \u383 ays \u383 he, \
you don't do well, truly, Sir, to grin and jear at an \
hone\uc0\u383 t woman, who\u383 e hu\u383 band has paid \u383 cot and \
\
\
lot in the pari\uc0\u383 h the\u383 e twenty years, and I am \u383 ure \
\
\
J am old enough to be your. mother ; indeed you are \
to blame. x Det an 0597 24 \
\
A NOELEMAN of this kingdom, who was often \
put into the tower by the Rump, and Oliver, for \
his loyalty to the king, was followed by a cripple \
(who was a cavalier al\uc0\u383 o) who begged earne\u383 tly of \
\
\
him; for, my lord, \uc0\u383 ays he, you know that you and \
\
\
J have been in all the pri\uc0\u383 ons in London. Out! \
you lying rogue! fays he, I never was in any pri- \
\uc0\u383 on but the Tower. Yes, \u383 ays he, and I have been \
\
\
in all the re\uc0\u383 t. | \
A NoToR1oOUs thief, in Wales, was brought \
\
\
to be tried for his life, and the judge had a great \
mind to hang him; and upon examination, he con- \
fe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed he did the robbery. Now, \u383 ays the judge, \
\
\
you of the jury, pray take notice he bath confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed \
it, you need no other evidence. A little after, they \
\
\
brought him in Not Guilty. Then the judge bid \
them go back again, and \uc0\u383 till they brought Not \
Guilty; and fo they did three times. The judge \
\
\
a\uc0\u383 ked them the rea\u383 on; the foreman told him, they \
\
\
had rea\uc0\u383 on enough for what they did; for, \u383 ays he, \
\
\
we all know him very well to be one of the arrant - \
\
\
\
\
e\uc0\u383 t liars in the world, and not to be believed in \
what\uc0\u383 oever he \u383 ays, 7 \
\
WuENn Queen Elizabeth, in her progre\uc0\u383 s thro? \
the kingdom, called at Coventry, the mayor, at- \
tended by the aldermen, addre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed her maje\u383 ty in \
rhyme, in the following words: \
\
We men of Coventry \
Are very glad to \uc0\u383 ee \
Your royal maje\uc0\u383 ty: \
Good Lord! how fair you be! \
Towhich her maje\uc0\u383 ty returned the following gra- \
cious an\uc0\u383 wer : \
My royal maje\uc0\u383 ty \
Is very glad to \uc0\u383 ee \
Ye men of Coventry: \
| Good Lord! what fools you be! \
\
In a \uc0\u383 econd tour through England, \u383 oon after \
the defeat of the Spani\uc0\u383 h armada, the Queen paid \
the afore\uc0\u383 aid city another vi\u383 it: Mr. Mayor, on her \
maje\uc0\u383 ty's departure, among other particulars \u383 aid, \
When the King of Spain attacked your maje\uc0\u383 ty, e- \
gad, he. took the wrong \uc0\u383 ow by the ear. The Queen \
could not help \uc0\u383 miling at the man's \u383 implicity, \
which was further heightened, when he begged to \
have the honour to attend the Queen as far as the \
gallows, which \uc0\u383 tood about a mile out of the town. \
\
Tre council-chamber of the fame corporation \
having occa\uc0\u383 ion to be beautified, the Mayor for the \
time being, which was \uc0\u383 oon after the acce\u383 \u383 ion of \
King George I. undertook to \uc0\u383 uperintend the work- \
men employed in that bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s. As is u\u383 ual, an \
in\uc0\u383 cription was put up, after the whole was com- \
pleated, mentioning the year, &c. in which the \
room was ornamented; but the wife Mayor per- \
ceiving the words Anno Domini, immediately \uc0\u383 ent \
\
\
\'97 \
\
\
for and abu\uc0\u383 ed ' the painter for committing \u383 uch a \
gro\uc0\u383 s blunder as putting Anno Domini; when, \u383 ays \
he, don't you know that Queen Anne is dead, and \
therefore it \uc0\u383 nould be Geargrio Domini. | \
Soo after King James I. came to the throne of \
England, he took it into his head one day to go and \
Hear cau\uc0\u383 es in We\u383 tmin\u383 ter-hall, to \u383 hew his wi\u383 . \
dom and learning, of which he had no mean opini\'97 \
on. Accordingly, being \uc0\u383 eated on that bench, a \
cau\uc0\u383 e came on, which the coun\u383 el, learned in the 10 \
law, \uc0\u383 et forth to \u383 uch advantage, on the part of the i: \
plaintiff, that the \uc0\u383 agacity of the royal judge \u383 oon I y \
- faw the ju\uc0\u383 tice of it \u383 o clearly, that he frequently c \
cried out, I'\uc0\u383 e ken the matter unco weel! The ch \
gude mon is i' the reeght! He mun ha\'94 it! he mun I he \
ha? it And when the coun\uc0\u383 el had concluded, 4 \
took it as an high affront, that the judges of the MI 24 \
cburt \uc0\u383 hould pre\u383 ume to remon\u383 trate to him, that \'b6 re \
it was the rule audire alteram partem, to hear both \
parties before they gave judgment. Curioiity to int \
know what could be \uc0\u383 aid in fo clear a ca\u383 e, rather \'b6 to \
than any re\uc0\u383 pect to their rules, made him defer his I ny \
deci\uc0\u383 ion; but the defendant's coun\u383 el had \u383 carce be- dri \
gan to open their cau\uc0\u383 e, when his \u383 acred majcily | \
appeared greatly di\uc0\u383 compo\u383 ed, and was \u383 o puzzled bes \
as they proceeded, that he had no patience to hear |\} nor \
them out, but \uc0\u383 tarting up in a pa\u383 \u383 ion, cried, \'a9 T'te fc \
hear ne mere! ye are au knaves aleeke! ye gi' each ver \
other the lee, and neither's i' the reegbt.\'93 that \
Lord C-\'97 way a\uc0\u383 ked once, why he preferred I wit! \
playing with \uc0\u383 harpecs to gentlemen: Why, \u383 aid he, I to 1 \
if I play with tharpers, and win, I am \uc0\u383 urs to be put \
paid; but if I win cf gentiemen, they frequent Gin \
behaye \uc0\u383 o genteelly, that I get nothing but Words lit \
and polite apologies tor my money. 2 \
\
\
\
Ax arch pri\uc0\u383 oner, who had an unfavourable \
\
countenance, being brought to the bar to be tried \
for hor\uc0\u383 e-\u383 tealing, the judge immediately eried, \
oh! here is a noted villain, I am \uc0\u383 ure! why, \u383 irrah, \
can \uc0\u383 ce the rogue in your face: ah, my lord, \u383 ays \
the fellow, I wonder at that; for 1 did not know \
my face was a liking-gla\uc0\u383 s, till yeur lordfhip few \
your\uc0\u383 elf in it. \
A PARSON and clerk having a mind for a whet \
before \uc0\u383 ervice begun, went to a tavern, but drink- \
ing rather too much, the pa\uc0\u383 tor, while the deputy \
was \uc0\u383 inging a p\u383 alm, fell a\u383 leep in his pulpit; the \
clerk ob\uc0\u383 erving it, and willing to excu\u383 e him, \u383 ung \
the p\uc0\u383 alm twice over; but finding the faithful \u383 hep- \
herd \uc0\u383 till \u383 leeping, jogg'd him, and \u383 aid, fr it is \
t. To which the par\uc0\u383 on loudly an\u383 wer'd, why \
then fill another, thinking him\uc0\u383 elf \u383 till in the ta- \
rern. \
\
A GENTLEMAN having broughthisfrienddown \
into his cellar, his friend ob\uc0\u383 erving there was no\u383 eat \
to fic on, aiked him the rea\uc0\u383 on of it. Becau\u383 e, \
\uc0\u383 ays the other, I will have no man that comes here \
drink any longer than he can \uc0\u383 tand. \
\
AN hone\uc0\u383 t Highlander, walking along Holburn, \
heard a voice cry, regue, Scot, rogue, Scot; his \
northern blood, fired at the in\uc0\u383 ult, drew his broad \
\uc0\u383 word, looking.round him on every fide, to di\u383 co- \
ver the object of his indignation; at la\uc0\u383 t he found \
that it came from a parrot, perched in a balcony \
within his reach: but the Generevs Scot, di\uc0\u383 daining \
to \uc0\u383 tain his truity blade with \u383 uch ignodle blood, \
put up his \uc0\u383 word again, with a \u383 our \u383 mile, \u383 aying, \
Gm ye were a man, as ye re a green geu\uc0\u383 e, I wou'd \
\
\
clit your weem. \
\
\
\
. \uc0\u383 hut his eyes, and placed it before his face; ano: \
ther a\uc0\u383 king him, Why he did \u383 o? Upon my \u383 boul, \
fays Teague, is to fee bow 1look when I am a\uc0\u383 leep, \
\
A CERTAIN reverend drone in the country was \
complaining to another, that it was a great fatigue \
to preach twice a day. Ch \uc0\u383 aid the other, 7 preach \
twice very Sunday, and make nothing of it. \
\
AN Oxford \uc0\u383 cholar, whos piqued him\u383 elf upon \
being a wag; was acco\uc0\u383 ted upon the road to Lon- \
don, by a per\uc0\u383 on who a\u383 ked him which was the near- \
eft way to Tyburn\'97\'93 Why, replied the Oxonian, \
the \uc0\u383 horte\u383 t way you can take, is to flop the fir\u383 t \
per\uc0\u383 on you meet, and demand his money.'\'97* Are \
you \uc0\u383 ure of that, replied the traveller; then (draw- \
ing a Pi\uc0\u383 tol out of his pocket), as I am forexpedi- \
tion, your money this in\uc0\u383 tant.\'94 The wag \u383 ubmit- \
ted to his demand, and paid \uc0\u383 ix guineas for his joke. \
\
A FRENCHMAN having lived a \uc0\u383 ingle life too \
long, as he thought, to his advantage, re\uc0\u383 olved to \
marry 2 wife to dre\uc0\u383 s victuals, and take care of his \
hou\uc0\u383 nold affairs. At la\u383 t he pitches upon one; but \
he being a proud finiky creature, would do little \
or nothing. A\uc0\u383 ter he had been married a month, \
and the honey moon was pretty well over, he defircs \
her to dre\uc0\u383 s the meat he had bought fer dinner. \
At which \{he grumbled and gave him \uc0\u383 our looks, \
\uc0\u383 ay ing, UBYs \u383 he expected to have a maid to do \
that for her, for \uc0\u383 he was never bred up to \u383 uch fa- \
very. He \uc0\u383 eemed contented, and only replied, Var \
well, my dear, if dat you vil not do it var me, be- \
gar me vil doit var you; and did it accordingly. \
At night the bed was to be made, but \uc0\u383 he would \
not do it; \uc0\u383 o he was forced to doit for her. Sun- \
day h2 tak23 her abroad for a walk in the fields; \
and after \uc0\u383 ome time, they \u383 at down under a hedge \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 75 \
to re\uc0\u383 t them\u383 elves, and mon\u383 ieur \u383 pying a pretty \
\
\
young crab-\uc0\u383 tick, pulls out his knife, and defires \
\
\
his wife to go and cut it for him; but \uc0\u383 he com- \
plained of her being tired, and \uc0\u383 he would not ri\u383 e, \
not \uc0\u383 he indeed. Vel, madame, \u383 aid he, me vil do \
it var you; \uc0\u383 o ri\u383 es, cuts the \u383 tick, andtrims it for \
u\uc0\u383 e: then-coming to her, \u383 ays, See my dear, vat \
pritty, pritty flick dis is; do take it and beat \
your\uc0\u383 elf vid it. What, \u383 ays \u383 he, do you take me \
for a fool, or mad? Vel den, \uc0\u383 ays he, me vil do it \
var you; and \uc0\u383 o belaboured her to \u383 ome purpo\u383 e; \
that ever afterwards \uc0\u383 he. was a good wife, and al- \
ways willing to do her duty, without giving her \
hu\uc0\u383 band the trouble todo it for her. \
\
THREE or four rogui\uc0\u383 h \u383 cholars walking out \
one day from the univer\uc0\u383 ity of Oxford, e\u383 pyed a \
poor fellow near Abingdon, afteep in a ditch, with \
an a\uc0\u383 s by him laden with carthen ware, holding the \
bridle in his handy \uc0\u383 ays one of the \u383 cholars to the \
re\uc0\u383 t, if you will a\u383 \u383 i\u383 t me, T1] help you to a little \
money, for you know we are bare at pre\uc0\u383 ent; no \
doubt of it they were nct long in con\uc0\u383 enting: why \
then, \uc0\u383 aid he, we'il go and \u383 ell this old fellow's afs \
at Abingdon; fer you know the fair is to-morrow, \
and we \{hall meet with chapmen enough; there- \
fore, do you take the panniers off, and put them \
upon my. back, and that bridle over my head, and \
then lead the a\uc0\u383 s to market and let me alone with \
the old man. This being done accordingly, in a \
little time after the poor man waking, wes \uc0\u383 trange- \
ly \uc0\u383 urprized to \u383 ee his a\u383 s thus metamorpho\u383 ed: oh! \
pray, faid the \uc0\u383 cholar, take this bridle out of my \
mouth, and this load from my back. Zoons, how \
came you here, replied the. old man? way, faid . \
he, my father, who is a necromancer, upon an idle \
\
D 2 \
\
\
75 DEMO CGRIT US: on, \
thing I did to di\uc0\u383 oblige him, transformed me into \
an a\uc0\u383 s; but now his heart has relented, and T am \
come to my own \uc0\u383 hape again, I beg you witklet \
me go home and thank him: by all means, \uc0\u383 aid the \
-crockery merthant. I don't de\uc0\u383 ire to have anything \
to do with conjuration; and fo \uc0\u383 et the \u383 cholar at \
libecty, who went directly to his comrades, that by \
this time were making merry with the money they \
had \uc0\u383 old the a\u383 s for: but the old fellow was forced \
to go the next day to \uc0\u383 cek for a new one inthe fair, \
and after having looked on \uc0\u383 everal, his own was \
\uc0\u383 hewn him for a very good one: h/ , faid he, \
what! have he and his father quarrelled again al-. \
ready? no, no, I'll have nothing to \uc0\u383 ay to him. \
\
'A Lady of quality \uc0\u383 ending her Iri\u383 h footman \
to fetch home a pair of new \uc0\u383 tays, \u383 trictly charged \
him to take coach if it rained, for fear of wetting \
them: but a great\uc0\u383 hower of rain falling, the fellow \
returned with the \uc0\u383 tays dropping wet; and being \
\uc0\u383 everely reprimanded for not doing as he was' or- \
\
deted he \uc0\u383 aid, he had obeyed his orders. How \
then. an\uc0\u383 wered the lady, couldthe ftays be wet, if \
vou took them into the coach with you? No, repli- \
eg hone\uc0\u383 t teague, 7 know my place better; I did not \
9 into the coach but rode behind, as I always u\uc0\u383 ed \
'f6 49, | \
"A GENTLEMAN having be\uc0\u383 poke a \u383 upper at an \
inn, de\uc0\u383 ired his landlord to \u383 up wich him. The \
ho\uc0\u383 t came up, and thinking to pay a greater com- \
pliment tkan ordinary to his gue\uc0\u383 t, pretended to \
find fault with the laying the eloth, and took the \
plates and knives and threw themdown \uc0\u383 tairs, The \
gentleman re\uc0\u383 clving not to Faulk his humour, threw \
the bottles and gla\uc0\u383 \u383 es. down al\u383 o; at which the \
ho\uc0\u383 t being \u383 urprized, 2 red the rea\u383 on of his \u383 o \
\
\
\
deing. Nay, nothing, replied the gentleman, buf \
when T \uc0\u383 aw you throw the plates and knives down. \
flairs I thought you had a mind to: \uc0\u383 up below, \
\
ALPHONS0, king of Naples, \uc0\u383 ent a moor, who \
had kcen his captive a long time, to Barbary, with \
a con\uc0\u383 iderable \u383 um of money to purcha\u383 e hor\u383 es, \
and to return by \uc0\u383 uch a time. There was about \
the king a bu\uc0\u383 foon, or je\u383 ter, who had atable-book, \
wherein he u\uc0\u383 ed to regi\u383 ter any remarkable ab\u383 ur- \
dity that happened at court. The day the moor \
was di\uc0\u383 patched to Barbary, the \u383 aid je\u383 ter waiting \
on the king at \uc0\u383 upper, the king called for his table- \
book: in which the je\uc0\u383 ter kept a regular journal of \
ab\uc0\u383 urdities. The king took the book, and read, \
How Alphon\uc0\u383 o, king of Naples, had \u383 ent Beltram \
the Moor, who had been a long time his pri\uc0\u383 oner, \
to Morocco, his own country, with \uc0\u383 o many thou- \
\uc0\u383 and crowns. to buy hor\u383 cs. - The king turned to \
the je\uc0\u383 ter, and a\u383 ked, why he in\u383 erted that? be- \
cau\uc0\u383 e, faid be, I. think he will never.ceme back to \
be a pri\uc0\u383 oner again: and fo you have lo\u383 t both man \
and money: but, if he docs come, \uc0\u383 ays the king, \
then your je\uc0\u383 t is marr'd : no, Sir, replies the buffoon, \
for if he \uc0\u383 hould return, I will blot out yeur name, | \
and put in his for a fool. \
\
AN author came into a b\'9cok\uc0\u383 eller's \u383 hop hors \
\
\
Na\uc0\u383 h was reading, and offered a poem to \u383 ell. The \
\
\
book\uc0\u383 eller refu\u383 ing to give. the money he a\u383 ked, he \
turned \uc0\u383 hort round, and \u383 aid he would carry it home. \
jor that he did not care how much wit he had in \
hand. True, fays Na\uc0\u383 h, and I think you, \u383 beuld al- \
\
\
ways keep \uc0\u383 ome in hand, my friend, for T fancy yeu \
de. but littl\'e6 in head. \
\
\
DR, Bentley \uc0\u383 hewing a young lady the fine libra- \
ry in Trinity college, and among the re\uc0\u383 t cf the \
\
\
\
books, his own writings curiou\uc0\u383 ly bound, a\u383 ked the \
lady how \uc0\u383 he liked the binding: the lady an\u383 wered, \
they were extremely hand\uc0\u383 ome, but \u383 he cho\u383 e ra- \
ther to have his works in \uc0\u383 heets. \
\
\
A DEAr fellow coming to London to \uc0\u383 ell a tur- \
\
\
key, at Hyde-park corner, had occa\uc0\u383 ion to untru\u383 sa \
point. A gentleman pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing by, intending to put \
\
\
a joke upon him; countryman, \uc0\u383 aid he, there's a \
\
\
t\'97d under you. The man thinking he a\uc0\u383 ked the \
price of his turkey, \uc0\u383 aid, four ihillings, ma\u383 ter. I \
iay, there's a t\'97d under you, \uc0\u383 aid the other. It \
is as good as ever you cat in your life, faid the fel\'bb \
iow, either baked or roa\uc0\u383 ted. Tou ra\u383 cal, \u383 aid he, \
could find in my heart to kick you \uc0\u383 oundly, Chu\u383 e, \
\uc0\u383 aid the fellow, if you won't another will. \
\
A CERTAIN lady \uc0\u383 tanding by a \u383 at young gen - \
tlewoman when her \uc0\u383 tays were lacing on, took oc- \
cahon to joke her upon the largene\uc0\u383 s of her \u383 hape; \
to which the girl \uc0\u383 aid, \'a9 \u383 he could wp wi\u383 h it as \
\
\
flender as her lady\uc0\u383 hip's reputation.\'93 \
\
\
A TEMPEAR going at Chri\uc0\u383 tmas into Vork - \
Mire, to \uc0\u383 ee his \u383 ather, took \u383 ome other templars a- \
long with him; and in one of the holidays, he \
would have them to an alchou\uc0\u383 e hard by, where the \
woman was deaf. So coming thither, Oh, my \
young ma\uc0\u383 ter, \u383 ays \u383 he, 1 han't \u383 een you the\u383 e \u383 even \
\
\
vears. Then he thinking to abu\uc0\u383 e her, drank to \
\
\
her, \uc0\u383 aying, Here's to thee, and to all the rogues, \
whores and bawdsin England. She \uc0\u383 eeing his lips \
go, but hearing him not, \uc0\u383 aid, come, fir, il pledge \
you, for I know you drink to your father and mo- \
\
\
ther, and tha\uc0\u383 e good gentlewemen - your \u383 ifters. \
A JuRY having giren 15004. damages again\uc0\u383 t \
\
\
Sir II \
\
\
\'97ly, for criminal conver\uc0\u383 ation with \
\
\
a geatieman's wife, as the defendant was going out \
\
\
as\'94 as ae Ge Hoe. oo. a \
\
\
\
\
of court, he cried \'a9 damn the\uc0\u383 e twelve apprai\u383 ers, \
they have confoundedly over-valued my pa\uc0\u383 time.\'94 \
\
A CERTAIN great lady pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing in her charict \
through Long-Acre one morning, perceived her \
\uc0\u383 on coming out of a brothel. The tpark having a \
quick eye upon his mother, retreated back into the \
pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age in great confu\u383 ion: the old lady ordering \
her coac hman to \uc0\u383 top at the door, called out, My \
\uc0\u383 on, my \u383 en, never be a\u383 hamed at coming out of a \
bawdy hou\uc0\u383 e; but for cver be a\u383 hamed of going in- \
to one.\'93 | \
\
An elderly lady was telling her daughter, agirl \
of \uc0\u383 ixteen, of the abominable lewdne\u383 s and wick- \
edne\uc0\u383 s of the age, and what d ebaucheries were dai- \
ly practi\uc0\u383 ed by vicious men, who made u\u383 e of vio\'bb \
lence as well as art to \uc0\u383 atisfy their brutal appetites; \
and how that \uc0\u383 words and pi\u383 tols had been put to \
women, threatening them with immediate death, \
if they refu\uc0\u383 ed their unlawful embraces; and then \
:ked mi\uc0\u383 s, that if it \u383 hould ever happen to be her \
fate to meet with \uc0\u383 uch a trial, how \u383 he \u383 hould be- \
have? to which the girl replied, /fe is fweet mam. \
ma. | \
OxE night a drunken \uc0\u383 ellow jo\u383 tled again\u383 t a \
po\uc0\u383 t; but thought \u383 omebody had jo\u383 tled him; ane \
fell a beating the po\uc0\u383 t till his knuckles were broke. \
Says one to him, \'a9 fic, what makes you fight with \
the po\uc0\u383 t?\'94 * How \u383 hould 1 know it was the po\u383 t, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, why did not he blow his horn then ?? \
\
A. cov N TRY fellow beingto be catechi\uc0\u383 ed(who \
was an apprentice) the par\uc0\u383 on z\{ked him, what's \
your name? John, \uc0\u383 ays the fellow. Who gave \
vou that name ? \uc0\u383 ays the pari\u383 on, My godfather, - \
and godmothers, Oc. \uc0\u383 ays the fellow. Well \u383 id, \
\uc0\u383 ys the par\u383 on; and what did your godfathers and \
\
\
godmothers then for you? \uc0\u383 ays John, Sir, they \
bave done nothing for me yet, but they promi\uc0\u383 e to \
do \uc0\u383 omething for me when I come out of my time. \
\
MR Wilks, who, with Colley Cibber and Mr. \
B Dogget, was one of the managers cf the old hou\uc0\u383 e \
under Sir Richard Steel, was a gentleman cf great \
humanity, and remarkably kind to his countrymen, \
where he ob\uc0\u383 erved the lea\u383 t de\u383 ert; one in\u383 tance \
does. great honour to his memory, which was this: \
Mr. Smith, a gentleman educated at Dublin, be- \
ing hindered by an impediment in his pronuncia- \
tion from engaging in orders, ior which his friends \
de\uc0\u383 igned him, left his own country, and came to \
\
\
\
London in que\uc0\u383 t of employment, but found his \u383 o- \
\
\
' licitations fruitle\uc0\u383 s, and his nece\u383 \u383 ities every day \
more pre\uc0\u383 \u383 ing. In this di\u383 tre\u383 s he wrote a tragedy, \
\
\
jected. Thus were his la\uc0\u383 t hopes defeated, and \
he had no cther pro\uc0\u383 pect than that of the mo\u383 t de- \
plorable poverty. But Mr. Wilks thought hisper- \
formance, tho? not perfect, at lea\uc0\u383 t worthy of \u383 ome \
reward, and therefore offered him a benefit. This \
favour he improved with \uc0\u383 o much diligence, that \
the hou\uc0\u383 e afforded: him a con\u383 iderable \u383 um, with \
which he went to Leyden, applied him\uc0\u383 elf to the \
\uc0\u383 tudy of phy\u383 ic, and pro\u383 ecuted his de\u383 ign with \u383 e \
much diligence and \uc0\u383 ucce\u383 s, that when Dr. Boer: \
haave was de\uc0\u383 ired by the Czarina to recommend \
\{ proper per\uc0\u383 ons to introduce into Ru\u383 \u383 ia the practice \
1 and \uc0\u383 tudy of phy\u383 ic, Dr. Smith was one of tho\u383 e \
whom he \uc0\u383 elected. He had a con\u383 iderable pen\u383 i- \
1 on \uc0\u383 ettled on him at his arrival, and is now, or was \
1 lately, one of the chief phy\uc0\u383 icians at the Ru\u383 \u383 ian \
court. \
\
THE late Dr B\'97-r\'97y, who\uc0\u383 e wit had too often \
\
\
and offered it to the players, by whom it was re- \
\
\
C- \
\
\
\
\
a tincture of ill-nature, was one evening very hard \
upon Mr. Hl, who had been in great di\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s \
H\'9711 took no notice of him at fir\uc0\u383 t, but \u383 uffer't \
bim to run on till he chang'd the \uc0\u383 ubject, and a- \
mong\uc0\u383 t other things the Dr. mentioned his having \
been out of town for a week. Aye, \uc0\u383 ays Mr. Hl, \
that was publi\uc0\u383 hed in all the Saturday's papers. In \
what form, \uc0\u383 ays the doctor? Why DECREASEDIN \
THE BURIALS THIS: WEEK, ONE: HUNDRED. \
AND FOR TY-FOUR. \
\
A PRESBYTERIAN preacher, who was explain- \
ing to his congregation the great benefits ari\uc0\u383 ing \
from the \uc0\u383 abbath, told them, that among other ex- \
cellencies of their in\uc0\u383 titution, was the proper choice \
of the day. The Jews, \uc0\u383 ays he, kept it on the \u383 e - \
venth; but we keep it on the fir\uc0\u383 t; and if it were \
en any other, it would make \'e0 broken week, \
\
TRE Scots, among other maxims of frugality, \
\uc0\u383 ay, that if butter has no hairs in it, the cow that \
gave the milk will not thrives and an Engli\uc0\u383 hman \
having \uc0\u383 ome brought to him in which he ob\u383 erved \
a great number, de\uc0\u383 ired his landlady to bring him \
the butter upon one plate and the hairs upon ano- \
ther, that he might mix them him\uc0\u383 elf ; for he \
thought, in the piece he had already, the proportion \
of hair was rather. too much. \
\
IT is \uc0\u383 aid of dean Swift, that the la\u383 t \u383 parkle. of \
his wit, when he was \uc0\u383 inking into idiocy, was on \
the following occa\uc0\u383 ion. Mr. Handel, who was \
then about to quit Ireland, went to take leave of \
him. The \uc0\u383 ervant was \u383 ome time before he could \
make the dean under\uc0\u383 tand him; which when he \
did, immediately cried out, Prodigious! a r \
and a genius, admit him, admit him, \
\
- WHEN Mr. Witherilt belonged to Drury- Low \
\
playhou\uc0\u383 e, he u\u383 ed in the \u383 ummer- \u383 ea\u383 on to go in- \
\
\'97 \
towns in Lincolnfhire, the county where he was \
born. Being at Grantham, his \uc0\u383 on was taken ill, \
and when he was fummoned to attend his bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s \
in town he \uc0\u383 ent a letter excu\u383 ing him\u383 elf io Mr. \
Wilks for a few days, becau\uc0\u383 e his \u383 on was at the point \
of death. What follows is remarkable: The very \
night this letter was wrote, the \uc0\u383 on, in all appear- \
ance, expired, was \uc0\u383 tript and wa\u383 hed, the bed taken \
away, and he laid out upon a mat, with a ba\uc0\u383 on of \
\
\
\uc0\u383 alt placed on his \u383 tomach, 2ccording ts the cu\u383 tom \
\
\
of the countrywhere he died; the incon\uc0\u383 olable pa- \
rents, (for his mother was al\uc0\u383 o of the company) re- \
moved to another lodging, the coffin was \uc0\u383 ent in- \
to the decea\uc0\u383 ed's chamber, and the windows were \
\
\
all \uc0\u383 et open. About ten at night a per\u383 on was \u383 ent \
\
\
with a light to watch the corps. When \uc0\u383 he open- \
\
\
ed the door, the fir\uc0\u383 t object \u383 he beheld was poor \
\
\
Bob (as he was generally called by his intimates) \
fitting up, with his teeth chattering in his head, as \
\
\
well they might, with cold. The woman, in her \
\
\
\{right, drop'd the candle, and \uc0\u383 cream'd out the de- \
wil! The noife alarmed another woman below, \
vrho ran up \uc0\u383 tairs to \u383 ee what was the matter. In \
the mean time, Bob, with much ado, had made a \
thift to get from the bed; and taking up the can- \
dle, which lay upon the floor unextingui\uc0\u383 hed, was \
creeping to the door to call for a\uc0\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance, as naked \
as from the womb of his mother; which the wo- \
men perceiving, with joint \uc0\u383 creams repeated, a \
\
\
_ gho\uc0\u383 t, a gho\u383 t! the devil, the devil! The ma\u383 ter of \
the hou\uc0\u383 e hearing this uproar, ran him\u383 elf to know \
\
\
the rea\uc0\u383 on; where poor Bob, the \u383 uppo\u383 ed devil, \
and he, \uc0\u383 oon came to a right under\u383 tanding. ' He \
\
\
was put into a warm bed, to the un\uc0\u383 peakable joy. of \
his de\uc0\u383 ponding parents, and in tendays after was in \
London, telling the \uc0\u383 tory of his own death. \
Wen queen Elizabeth fir\uc0\u383 t propo\u383 ed tothe fa- \
mous civilian Dc. Dale, his being employed by \
her in Flanders, \uc0\u383 he, among other encouragements, \
told him, that he \uc0\u383 hould have twenty \u383 hillings a- day \
\uc0\u383 or his expences : Then, madam, \u383 aid he, 7 wil \
\uc0\u383 pend nineteen fbillings a day. What will you do \
with the odd \uc0\u383 hilling, the queen replied ? 7 wil! \
re\uc0\u383 erve that for my Kate, and for Tom and Dick ; \
meaning his wife and children. This induced the \
queen to enlarge his allowance. Duringthe doc- \
tor's \uc0\u383 tay in Flanders, he once fent in a packet to \
the \uc0\u383 ecretaries of \u383 tate, twoletters, one to thequeen \
and the other tohis wife; but that which was meant \
for the queen was \uc0\u383 uper\u383 cribed 22 his dear wife; \
and that for his wife, To her mo excellent maje\uc0\u383 ty ; \
\uc0\u383 o that the queen having cpened his letter, found it \
beginning with Sweet Heart, and afterwards with \
my dear, and dear love, with fuch like expre\uc0\u383 hons, | | \
=cquainting her with the \uc0\u383 tate of his body, and \
that he began to want money. You may ea\uc0\u383 ily / \
gue\uc0\u383 s. what motions of mirth this mi\u383 take rais'd; \
but the doctor by his overfight got a \uc0\u383 upply of mo- \
ney. When upon the overtures for a treaty, the \
other amba\uc0\u383 \u383 adors came to propo\u383 e in what language \
they \uc0\u383 hould treat; the Spani\u383 h amba\u383 ador faid, that \
the French was the mo\uc0\u383 t proper, becau\u383 e, \u383 aid he \
to Dr. Dale, your mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s intitles her\u383 elf Queen \
of France. Nay, then, \uc0\u383 aid the doctor, let us treat \
in Hebrew, for your ma\uc0\u383 ter calls him\u383 elf . of \
Jeru\uc0\u383 alem. \
WHEN the carl of Stair was la\uc0\u383 t amba\u383 \u383 ador in \
Holland, he made frequententertainments, towhick \
D 6 \
\
\
\
\
the foreign amba\uc0\u383 \u383 adors were con\u383 tantly invited, \
not excepting the amba\uc0\u383 \u383 ador of France, with who\u383 e \
nation we were then upon the point of breaking. \
In return, the abbe de Ville, the French re\uc0\u383 ident, \
as con\uc0\u383 tantly invited the Engli\u383 h and Au\u383 trian am- \
ba\uc0\u383 \u383 adors upon the like occa\u383 ions, The abbe wes \
a man of vivacity, and withal was remarkable for \
a certain quaintne\uc0\u383 s, in which he \u383 eemed to take \
great pride. Agrecable to this humour, he one \
day propo\uc0\u383 ed a health in the\u383 e terms: The Rifing \
Sun, my ma\uc0\u383 ter; alluding to a motto of Lewis XIV. \
which was pledged by the whole company. I \
then came to the baron de Rei\uc0\u383 hach's turn to give \
a health; and he, to countenance the abbe and to \
plea\uc0\u383 e him, propo\u383 ed, The moon and fixed ftars, in \
compliment. to his mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s the empre\u383 s queen, \
which was greatly applauded: and when it came \
to the earl's turn, the eyes of all the company were \
turned upon him; but that nobleman, who\uc0\u383 e \
pre\uc0\u383 ence of mind was never wanting upon ordinary \
as well as great occa\uc0\u383 ions, drank his ma\u383 ter, by the \
name of Zo\uc0\u383 bua the \u383 on of Nun, wha made the \u383 un \
and the moon to \uc0\u383 tand fill. \
SIR Cl\'97dy M\'97cd\'97], a Scots baronet, and \
member of parliament for one ofthe royal boroughs \
of that kingdom, came one morning, according to \
cu\uc0\u383 tom, to Sir Robert's levee, and without the \
lea\uc0\u383 t ceremony laid hold of his ribband. Sir Ro- \
bert could not readily di\uc0\u383 engage him\u383 elf, and the \
baronet lugg'd him to the window, in which, \uc0\u383 ou- \
\uc0\u383 ing him\u383 elf down, he happened to have an e\u383 cape, \
which carried with it \uc0\u383 o loud a report that it threF- \
the whole company into laughter. Very, well, Sir \
C- y, \uc0\u383 aid the mini\u383 ter, pray what have you far- \
ther to fay 2\'97IVhy, this it is, Sir Robert, I awe \
\
\
\
\
fifteen hundred pund, and by Ed if you don't give \
\
\
it me I' en go to-morrow to the hou\uc0\u383 e and vote \
according tomy con\uc0\u383 cience. ' "Tis to be pre\u383 umedthe \
\
\
demand was comply'd with in private, tho*laugh'd \
\
\
at in public, as this gentleman voted with Sir Ro- \
bert to the la\uc0\u383 t. \
\
SIR Richard Steel having one day invited to his \
hou\uc0\u383 e a great number of per\u383 ons of the fir\u383 t quali- \
ty, they were \uc0\u383 urpri\u383 ed at the number of liveries \
which \uc0\u383 urrounded the table; and after dinner, when \
wine and mirth had fet them free from the ob\uc0\u383 er- \
vation of rigid ceremony, one of them enquired of \
Sir Richard how \uc0\u383 uch an expen\u383 ive train of dome\u383 - \
tics could be con\uc0\u383 i\u383 tent with his fortune. Sir Ri- \
\
\
chard very frankly confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed that they were fellows, ; \
\
\
of whom he would very willingly be rid; and be-! \
\
\
ing then a\uc0\u383 k'd why he did not di\u383 charge them, de- | \
clared that they were bailiffs, who had introduced \
\
\
them\uc0\u383 elves with an execution; and whom, fince he \
\
\
could not fend them away, he had thought it con ve- \
\
\
bim credit while they ftaid. His friends were di- \
\
\
verted with the expedient, and by paying the debt- \
\
\
di\uc0\u383 charged their attendance; having obliged Sir \
Richard to promi\uc0\u383 e that they \u383 hould never again \
find him graced with a retinue of the fame kind. \
Wren Mr G\'97ck was la\uc0\u383 t at Walton-Bridge \
af\uc0\u383 embly, an old gentleman of about four \u383 core \
danced remarkably well, upon which Mr G\'97ck \
\uc0\u383 aid to another gentleman, I f:ou'd not like to be \
that gentleman's heir; why, fir, \uc0\u383 aidthe other? be- \
cau\uc0\u383 e, \u383 aid Mr. G\'97ck, I \u383 hculd think he would \
live too long, and-befides, \uc0\u383 aid he, if he were dead, \
I would be afraid he would rife again, if a tabor \
and pipe were to play over his grave. | \
\
\
\
AR D bir being invited to a pubic \
entertainment, and having transgre\uc0\u383 s'd the bounds \
of \uc0\u383 obriety, in the way to his lodgings, eoming by \
a gentleman's hou\uc0\u383 e where there were po\u383 ts before \
the door, \uc0\u383 tumbling upon one of them, he very \
complai\uc0\u383 antly took of his hat, and begged pardon \
for the affront he had put upon it. \
\
A BARBER of Lincoln, who generally \uc0\u383 haves \
for a penny, and had Jately the good fortune to mar- \
ry a handfome wife, with a trifle of money, hap- \
pened tocall in ata neighbour's, who keeps a \uc0\u383 chool; \
the children at that time were reading their le\uc0\u383 - \
\uc0\u383 ons, and one of the boys coming to the following \
pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age in the New Te\u383 tament, viz. It is ea\u383 ier for \
a camel to pa\uc0\u383 s through the eye of a needle, than for \
a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. \
'The barber \uc0\u383 uddenly \u383 tarted, and turned pale, and \
with tears,cried out, If that is the ca\uc0\u383 e, the Lord \
have mercy upon me, what will become 4 my poor \
foul. \
\
DvuRING the time of the king of Denmark's re \'b7 \
\uc0\u383 idence in England, an Iri\u383 n gentleman, in thetrue \
\uc0\u383 pirit of bull- making, offered to bet a guinea that \
\
\
his maje\uc0\u383 ty would vi\u383 it Ireland, before he left this \
\
\
kingdom. \'a9 \
\
\
AMONGST the characters at the late a \
\
\
ball, was a Hebe (\uc0\u383 uppo\u383 ed to be the lovely Mi\u383 s: \
- "H--Bs) who\uc0\u383 e wit gave great pleafureto all \u383 he con- \
\
\
ver\uc0\u383 ed with: a nobleman, not remarkable for his \
underftanding, a\uc0\u383 ked her if \u383 he was the real Hebe \
\
\
cr a counterfeit? Oh, my lord (fays \uc0\u383 he) do not. \
\
\
blame me for a\uc0\u383 \u383 uming a character, which thou- \
\uc0\u383 ands of women in this age do on the verge of four- \
fcore, as well in dre\uc0\u383 s as conver\u383 ation. \
\
\
Tux following droll \uc0\u383 tory is told ofa pcr\u383 on, at \
\
pre\uc0\u383 ent playing the patriot in a more confpicuous \
\uc0\u383 tation; but al\u383 o formerly practi\u383 ed as an attorney. \
A man having a bill on an alderman, \uc0\u383 ince dead, \
the acceptance of which was refu\uc0\u383 ed, applied to \
this attorney, who declared he would make the al- \
derman accept it, and accordingly wrote a letter, \
but the alderman thinking the manner faroured of \
impertinence and the matter of ignorance, an\uc0\u383 wer- \
ed it in this laconic way: \
\
Brafs, bra\uc0\u383 s, \
\
Your client's a fool, and you're an a\uc0\u383 s. \
Two coming into an inn, they bid the ho\uc0\u383 tler \
give their hor\uc0\u383 es \u383 ome cats; pre\u383 ently one going \
down, \uc0\u383 aw the ho\u383 tler tobbing the hor\u383 es, for which \
chiding him, be returned to his eompanion, that \
had tru\uc0\u383 ted too much in theho\u383 tler's hdelity : What, \
\uc0\u383 aid his companion, have the hor\u383 es dined already? \
Tes, 1 believe yours hath, replied he, for as 7 went \
\
down ju\uc0\u383 t now, I \u383 aw the he\u383 tler taking away. \
A PLAIN country fellow, born in E\uc0\u383 \u383 ex, coming \
\
\
to London, which place he had never \uc0\u383 een before, \
as he walked in a certain \uc0\u383 treet, not a great way \
\
\
from Mark-Lane, \uc0\u383 py'd a rope hanging at a mer- \
chant's door, with a handle to it; and wondering \
\
\
what it meant, he takes it in his hand, and played \
\
\
with it to and fro; at length pulling it hard, be \
heard a bellring; it\uc0\u383 o happened that the merchant \
being near the door, went him\uc0\u383 elf, and demanded \
what the fellow would have. Nothing, fir, \uc0\u383 aid he, \
I did but play with this pretty thing which hangs \
at your door. Whatcountryman are you, \uc0\u383 aid the \
merchant? An Ef\uc0\u383 exman, an't plea\u383 e you, replied \
the other. I thought \uc0\u383 o, replied the merchant, \
for I bave often heard \uc0\u383 ay, that ifa man beat a bu\u383 n \
in E\uc0\u383 \u383 ex, there pre\u383 ently comes forth a calf. It may \
\
\
\
\
be \uc0\u383 o, replied the countryman, and I thin a man \
can no \uc0\u383 ooner ring \'e0 bell in e but out pops a \
\
\
cuckold. \
A couNTRY curate -beingt examine his young \
\
\
catechumens one Friday in Lent, and the bell tol- \
ling for prayers, he was oblig'd to leave a game \
of All-fours unfini\uc0\u383 hed; telling his antagoni\u383 t, he \
\
\
wou'd \uc0\u383 oon di\u383 patch his audience, and \u383 ee him out; \
\
\
and for fear any tricks \uc0\u383 hou'd be play'd with the \
\
\
- cards in his ab\uc0\u383 ence, he put them in his ca\u383 \u383 ock. \
On a\uc0\u383 king one of the children how many com- \
mandments there were, and the boy not readilyan- \
\uc0\u383 wering, one of the cards dropp'd out of his \u383 leeve. \
However, he had the pre\uc0\u383 ence of mind to bid the \
\uc0\u383 ame boy pick it up, and tell him what card it was, \
which he readily did; then turning tothe parents, \
\uc0\u383 aid, Are ye not a\u383 bam'd to pay \u383 o little regard to \
the eternal welfare of your children, as not to teach \
them their commandments? I \uc0\u383 u\u383 peFed your negli- \
gence, and brought this card with me to detect your \
immorality in teaching your children to Os 150 \
cards before their commandments. \
\
\
Kix Charles the fir\uc0\u383 t, being once going to din- \
\
\
ner, when the chaplain in waiting was out of the \
way, he commanded Archee bis je\uc0\u383 ter to\u383 ay grace; \
which he immediately performs thus: All glory be \
to God on high, and little laud ta the devil. At \
which all the courtiers \uc0\u383 miling, becau\u383 e it reflect. \
ed upon Laud, archbi\uc0\u383 hop of Canterbury, who was \
a little man, the king told Archee that he would \
\
\
give an account of him to his grace the archbi\uc0\u383 nop: \
\
\
and what will you do then? \uc0\u383 ays the king. O, \
\uc0\u383 ays Archee, I will hide my\u383 elf where he \u383 hall ne- \
ver find me. Where's that? \uc0\u383 ays the king. \
\
\
\
the pulpit, \uc0\u383 ays Archee, for 1 am \u383 ure he never \
comes there. \
A USURER having lo\uc0\u383 t an hundred pounds, pro- \
mi\uc0\u383 ed ten pounds reward to any that \u383 hould bring \
it him. A tender-con\uc0\u383 cienced man finding it, \
brought it to him, demanding the ten pounds. But \
he, to baffle him, alledged, there were a hundred and \
ten pounds in the bag, when lo\uc0\u383 t; tho? upon break- \
ing open the \uc0\u383 ezl there apprared no more than an \
hundred. The man are\uc0\u383 ted him for his promi\u383 e, \
and it coming to be tried before a judge of Ni \
Prius, it appearing tnat the \uc0\u383 eal had not been bro- \
ken open, nor the bag ripped, \uc0\u383 ays the judge to \
the defendant, the bag you lo\uc0\u383 t had a hundred and \
ten pounds in it, you \uc0\u383 ay? Yes, my lord, \u383 ays he. \
Then, replied the judge, according to the evidence \
given in court, this cannot be your money, for \
here was but a hundred pounds: therefore the \
plainti mu\uc0\u383 t keep it till the true owner comes; and \
you mu\uc0\u383 t; look for your hundeed and ten n where \
you can find it. \
A 'VERY ignorant, but very foppi\uc0\u383 h young \u383 el- | \
low, going into a book\uc0\u383 eller's thop-with a relation, \
who went thither to buy \uc0\u383 omething he wanted, \u383 ee- \
ing his cou\uc0\u383 in look into a particular book, and \u383 mile, \
a\uc0\u383 ked him, what there was in that book, that made \
him \uc0\u383 mile? Why, an\u383 wered the other, this book is \
dedicated to you, cou\uc0\u383 in Jack. Is it \u383 o? \u383 aid he, \
pray let me \uc0\u383 ee it, for I never knew before that I \
had that honour done me; upon which taking it \
into his hand, he \uc0\u383 ound it to be Perkin's catechi\u383 m, \
dedicated to all ignerant per\uc0\u383 ons. | N \
A PHILOSOPHER carrying \uc0\u383 omething hid un- \
der his cloak, an impertinent per\uc0\u383 on a\u383 ked him, \
what he had under his cloak? To which the phi- \
\
\
lo\uc0\u383 opher an\u383 wered, I carry it there that you might \
not know, \
\
\
A Man of mean fortune married a hand\uc0\u383 ome \
woman of great e\uc0\u383 tate, who kept a gallant: and one \
day being in private with him, the told him how \
greatly \uc0\u383 he loved him; but the hu\u383 band over-hear- \
ing her, bid him not to believe her, for, \uc0\u383 ays be, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 he has told me the \u383 ame \u383 tory the\u383 e \u383 even years. \
\
\
TRE reverend Mr. Brodie preaching one day \
at a kirk in Edinburgh, en hell torments, in ex- \
treme cold weather, repre\uc0\u383 ented them to be into- \
lerable, by the excels of cold they fuffered there. \
One of his congregation, after \uc0\u383 ermon, took upon \
him to afk the rea\uc0\u383 on of his \u383 o doing, when all the \
eminent divines had preached it up to be the re- \
ver\uc0\u383 e. O, Sir, \u383 aid he, I had good rea\u383 on; for if 1 \
had told them it was het, I \uc0\u383 hould have had them all \
run away to hell te warm them\uc0\u383 elves. \
\
CERTAIN country clowns being very familiar \
with their mini\uc0\u383 ter, one of them, being an unman- \
Frm fellow, and illiterate, giving him no other \
\
\
Erms than Good man Par\uc0\u383 on, without any additio- \
\
\
al title, was reprehended by one of the mo\uc0\u383 t \
knowing among\uc0\u383 t them, ho told him he ought to \
gall him Pa\uc0\u383 tor; why \u383 o? replies the fellow. Be- \
\
u\uc0\u383 e, \u383 ays he, Pa\u383 tor is as much as \u383 bepherd, or the \
Fad of the \uc0\u383 heep; The other thanked him for his \
coun\uc0\u383 el, aad promi\u383 ed he would not commit the \
like incivility again; but pre\uc0\u383 ently after, having the \
\
\
cup in his hand, drinks to him, and \uc0\u383 ays, Ma\u383 ter \
\uc0\u383 beep's head, here's to you, fir; thinking he had \
\
\
_\'97 amends for his \uc0\u383 ormer \u383 implicity. \
\
A yYOuNG gentleman, after a very great mis- \
nd came to his mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s, and told her, he was \
reduced even to the want of five guineas, To \
\
\
\
which \uc0\u383 he replied, Lam glad of it, with all my heart. \
Are you \uc0\u383 o, madam, adds he, \u383 u\u383 pecting her con- \
\uc0\u383 tancy: pray, why \u383 o? becau\u383 e, faid \u383 he, Ican fur- \
ni\uc0\u383 h you with five thou\u383 and, \
\
THe late Dr. Stukely one day, byappointment, \
vi\uc0\u383 iting Sir I\u383 aac Newton, the \u383 ervant told him, he \
was in his \uc0\u383 tudy. No one was permitted to dif- \
turb him there; but as it was near dinner-time, \
the vifit or \uc0\u383 at down to wait for him. After a \u383 hort \
time dinner was brought in; a boiled chicken un \
der a cover, An hour pa\uc0\u383 ied, and Sir I\u383 aac did \
not appear. 'ihe doctor eat the fowl, and cover- \
ing up the e 50 di\uc0\u383 h, bad them dre\u383 s their mal \
ter another. Before that was ready, the great man \
\
came down; he apologized for his delay, and ad- \
ded, \'a9 Give me but leave to take my \uc0\u383 hort dinner, \
and I \uc0\u383 hall be at your \u383 ervice; I am fatigued and \
faint. Saying this, he lifted up the cover; and \
without any emotion, turned about to Stukely with \
a \uc0\u383 mile; See, \u383 ays. he, what we \u383 tudious 1 \
are! 1 forgot 1 had din'd.\'94 \
\
A POET going over Lincoln's Ibn-Fields, one, \
who pretended to be a poor maimed \uc0\u383 oldier, beg \'b7 \
ned his charity. The poeta\uc0\u383 ked him by what au- \
thority he went a begging? I have & licence for it, \
an\uc0\u383 wered the \u383 oldier; licence, \u383 aid the poet! lice \
thou may'ft have, but \uc0\u383 en\u383 e thou can'\u383 t have none, to \
beg of a cet. \
\
AN old man who had married a young with; \
complained to a friend, how unhappy he had al- \
ways been. IVhen I was young, \uc0\u383 aid he, I went \
abroad for want of a wife; and now I am old, my \
wife goes abroad for want of a hu\uc0\u383 band. | \
\
A GREAT Epicure making avi\uc0\u383 it to anobleman \
of. his acquaintance, found him playing at back- \
\
\
\
gammon with his chaplain; the clergyman leaving \
the room, tlie gentleman a\uc0\u383 ked his friend, how he \
could be \uc0\u383 o mean, as to fit playing with his chap- \
lain? \uc0\u383 wearing, for his part, he would rather play \
with his cook. Why then, \uc0\u383 ays the nobleman, you \
would do the very fame tuing for which you cen- \
\uc0\u383 ure me; for as you make a god of r guts, your \
cook is your chaplain. \
\
UEEN Elizabeth \uc0\u383 eeing a gentleman in her \
W who had not felt the effects of her favours \
\uc0\u383 o \u383 oon as he expected, looking out of her window, \
\uc0\u383 aid to him in Malian, What does a man thin , Sir \
Edward, when he thinks M nothing? After a little \
pau\uc0\u383 e, he an\u383 wered, He thinks, madam, of a woman's \
\
\
promi\uc0\u383 e: , The queen \u383 hrunk in her head, but was \
\
\
heard to \uc0\u383 ay, Well, Sir Edward, I mu\u383 t not confute \
you: err makes dull men n but it beads n \
poor. 5 3 \
A. CERTAIN mu\uc0\u383 ician, phe; bad a very bad \
voices as he was \uc0\u383 inging one day, took notice of a \
gentlewoman, who fell a crying; and imagining \
\
\
the \uc0\u383 weetne\u383 s: of his melody had awakened \u383 ome \
\
\
pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ion in her brea\u383 t, he began to \u383 ing louder, and \
\uc0\u383 he to weep more bitterly. He had no \u383 ooner end- \
ed his \uc0\u383 ong, but going to the lady, he a\u383 ked her \
why the cried? Oh! \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, I am the un\u383 ortu- \
nate woman, who\uc0\u383 e a\u383 s the wolvesdevoured ye\u383 ter- \
\
\
day, and no \uc0\u383 ooner did I hear you \u383 ing, but Ithought \
\
\
of my poor als, for \uc0\u383 urely, never were tuo voices \
more alike. \
\
Ix was \uc0\u383 aid of one, who remembered every thing \
he /ent, and en he ne that 1 (oo left \
ba wth his ee | | | \
\
\
\
TI \uc0\u383 teward of a noble lord's e\u383 tate in the coun- \
try had commi\uc0\u383 \u383 ioned, among cther things, a pea- \
fant, who was going up to London (with the de- \
fign chiefly to \uc0\u383 ee the fine folks there) to carry to his \
lady a ba\uc0\u383 ket of peaches. This lady lived in the \
environs of Gro\uc0\u383 vener- \u383 quare, and the pea\u383 ant, by \
\
\
the written directions on the ba\uc0\u383 ket, was enabled \
\
\
to find her hou\uc0\u383 e without much difficulty. Having \
told his errand at the door, to the porter, he was \
\uc0\u383 hortly after de\u383 ired to \u383 tep up \u383 tairs with his ba\u383 ket \
\
\
of fruit. On the fic\uc0\u383 t landing- place he was acco\u383 t- \
\
\
ed by three large monkics. Two of them of the \
male \uc0\u383 ex were richly dre\u383 \u383 ed in blue and gold; had \
\
\
bag-wigs, ruffles, and \uc0\u383 words by their \u383 ides. The \
\
\
other, a female, was di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed by her brocade \
petticoat, crim\uc0\u383 cn filk mantua, two or three pair, \
\
\
thick \uc0\u383 et together, of long laced ruffles, a \u383 tomacher \
\
\
curiou\uc0\u383 ly ornamented with brilliant \u383 tones, a watch \
hanging by her \uc0\u383 ide, a t\'e9te highly fini\u383 hed by a \
French fri\uc0\u383 eur, and a cap in the modern ta\u383 te, with \
a gaudy affortment of ribbon. As they grinned \
and cringed to the countryman, laying hold at the \
\uc0\u383 ame time of his ba\u383 ket, he Ict it down to them; \
and not knowing what animals they were, or not \
\
\
di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hing them immediately from the human \
\
\
\uc0\u383 pecies, he took off his hat to them with all the po- \
litene\uc0\u383 s he was ma\u383 ter of, and made them \u383 everal \
ru\uc0\u383 tic bows. The monkies during his obei\u383 ances \
had made quick work of it, unpacking and rifling \
the basket. Some cf the peaches they had crammed \
to their pockets, cthers they had eaten, and others \
\
\
they threw again into the basket after biting them; \
\
\
\uc0\u383 o that when they had played their farce to the full, \
they all three \uc0\u383 campered down \u383 taiis. The lady \
wondering what \uc0\u383 hould detain the pea\u383 ant, di\u383 pateh \
\
\
\
edher waiting-woman to ha\uc0\u383 ten his coming. When \
he had pre\uc0\u383 ented his basket, What's the matter \
here? \uc0\u383 aid the lady in a pa\u383 \u383 ion; every thing quite \
di\uc0\u383 compo\u383 ed, the peaches brui\u383 ed and mangled, and \
the basket \uc0\u383 carce half full; \u383 ure the fellow for his \
impudence de\uc0\u383 erves to be put in the \u383 tocks! Waunds, \
madam, replied the countryman, the basket waz \
brimming full, and not a finger laid upon a peach, \
till the two young gentlemen, your \uc0\u383 ons, and mils, \
your daughter, had met me on the \uc0\u383 tairs, and left \
it in the condition you \uc0\u383 ee it. The lady then re- \
collecting the monkies, Ah! \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, I can't be \
angry; it is a trick of the dear creatures, Jack, Tom \
and Margot; but for the fcotman, who \uc0\u383 hould hare \
conducted you up \uc0\u383 tains, I will di\u383 charge him this \
moment. \
\
An Iri\uc0\u383 hman hearing of a murder that was late. \
\
ly committed, asked, where does the man /ive? On \
the company's laughing at the que\uc0\u383 tion, he an\u383 wer- \
ed in an angry tone, by Ja\uc0\u383 us, gentlemen, I mean \
where does the man live that was killed? \
Is following in\uc0\u383 cription is on a tomb-\u383 tone in \
Lawrance-Ledeard church-yard, in the county of \
Scmer\uc0\u383 et: The man who re\u383 ts in this grave has \
had eight wives, by whom he had forty- Bro chil- \
dren, and twenty grand-children. He was bom \
rich, lived and and died poor, aged ninety- four, Ju. \
ly the Zoch, 1 7 64, born at Bewdly in een \
\uc0\u383 hire, 1650. \
\
ZLI, the \uc0\u383 ir\u383 t of the Ottoman emperors that \
\uc0\u383 haved his beard, his predece\u383 \u383 ors having alway! \
worn it long, being a\uc0\u383 ked by one of his ha\u383 has, why \
\
he altered the cu\uc0\u383 tom of his predece\u383 \u383 ors? an\u383 wer: \
ed, Becau\uc0\u383 e you ba\u383 has \u383 hall not lead me by the \
beard as you did them. \
\
\
\
A CERTAIN Teaguelander being upon a jours\'bb \
ney, in his way, chanced to light on a \uc0\u383 mall pig; \
\uc0\u383 ays he to the pig, Little pig wilt dou come and \
live wid me a month. The pig cried, a-week, a- \
week, a- week, a-week, four times: Den bee Chree\uc0\u383 bt, \
\uc0\u383 ays Mac, dat \'bd a month, for four weeks make a \
month: but poor Mac was taken up for \uc0\u383 tealing the \
pig, and carried before a ju\uc0\u383 tice, to whom he made \
this defence, Mr. Ju\uc0\u383 t ice, on mee \u383 balva\u383 bion, de pig \
did promi\uc0\u383 e to live wid mea month, but if de man \
will have him \uc0\u383 ooner, here 1s de pig for him. \
\
Quzex Elizabeth having taken notice of the \
duke de Villa Medina's gallant behaviour at a tour- \
nament, told him one day, that \uc0\u383 he would ab\u383 o- \
lutely know who his mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s was: Villa Medina. \
excu\uc0\u383 ed him\u383 elf a-while, but at la\u383 t yielding to her \
curio\uc0\u383 ity, he promi\u383 ed to \u383 end her her picture. \
The next morning he \uc0\u383 ent her a packet; wherein \
the queen finding nothing but a \uc0\u383 mall looking\'bb \
\
\
gla\uc0\u383 s, pre\u383 ently un der\u383 tood the Spaniard's meaning. \
\
\
ABusY impertinent, entertaining Ari\uc0\u383 totle the \
philo\uc0\u383 opher with a tedious di\u383 cour\u383 e, and ob\u383 erv- \
ing he did not much regard him, made an apolo- \
gy, that he was afraid he had interrupted him. No, \
\
\
indeed, replied the philo\uc0\u383 opher, you have net inter- \
\
\
rupted me, for I have not heard ene word you have \
\uc0\u383 aid, \
THE duke of a\uc0\u383 ked a friend, who he \
thought had undertaken the mo\uc0\u383 t difficult ta\u383 k, Mr. \
W\'97\uc0\u383 \{\'97n, in his attempt to find out the Longi- \
tude, or Mr. Li\uc0\u383 le, in his attempt to find out the \
phils\uc0\u383 apber's \u383 tone? The friend an\u383 wered, he could \
not tell which was the mo\uc0\u383 t arduous work of the \
two, but he was \uc0\u383 ure he him\u383 elf had engaged in a \
more difficult affair than either of them. What is \
\
 \
that, \uc0\u383 aid his grace? yy I have been the\u383 e fix yegrs \
endeavouring to prevail with you to pay your debts. \
\
VEN, one of the regicides, whil\uc0\u383 t he was gover- \
nor of Wind\uc0\u383 or, had\u383 eized upon the e\u383 tate of a ca- \
valier not far from his garri\uc0\u383 on, and had very mo- \
de\uc0\u383 tly put him\u383 elf into po\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ion of it. And this \
1 did him great \uc0\u383 ervice; for while the treaty of Ux- \
bridge was depending, a great numberof his friends, \
under di\uc0\u383 ferent pretences, came daily to con\u383 ulthim, \
and were all received and entertained at his \uc0\u383 eat \
there, with the greate\uc0\u383 t privacy. In the mean \
time, \uc0\u383 everal of his wife's relations came likewi\u383 e \
to \uc0\u383 pend a part of the \u383 ummer with her, and made \
this, by their own choice, the place of their re\uc0\u383 i- \
dence, which gave a colour to the go; vernor's fre- \
\
\
quent vi\uc0\u383 its, and rendered the corre\u383 pondence he \
\
\
maintained there quite un\uc0\u383 u\u383 pected. However, not- \
with\uc0\u383 tanding all bis arti\u383 ices, and the arti\u383 ices of \
tho\uc0\u383 e of his party tothe contrary, a report was \u383 pread \
that the king and the parliament were ke to a- \
greez and when this news was brought to Ven's, \
his lady and her company were then in the garden \
gathering of fruit. Every one was differently af- \
lected according- to their particular vicus; but \
\
\
my good lady, after \uc0\u383 ome pau\u383 e, turning upher eyes \
\
\
with a devout re\uc0\u383 ignation, faid, Yerily \u383 er my part \
T could be content with peace too, \uc0\u383 o every one were \
\uc0\u383 uffered to fit quietly under the \u383 hadow of his gown \
vine, and enjoy the god things the Lord has f ut in- \
fo our hands. \
Ov telling his friend he was a cuckold \
\
el had not known it, replied he, 1 fbould. have \
been angry with yer! for telling me ont. \
\
\
\
KinG William having either cho\uc0\u383 en, or actual- \
ly taken this motto for his \uc0\u383 tate coach, non rapui, \
fed recipt, I have not flole, but J received, alluding \
to his being called to the throne by the people, and \
to clear him\uc0\u383 elf from the \u383 candal of u\u383 urpation, it \
\
\
was told to one of the oppo\uc0\u383 ite party, and \'97 \
\
\
lays the informer, do you think the prince of Orange \
has taken for the motto to his coach? Dutch thee\uc0\u383 e, \
perhaps, cries the Jacobite. No, an\uc0\u383 wers his friend, \
but non rapui, /ed recipi. Mell, an\uc0\u383 wered the other, \
there's an old proverb which \uc0\u383 ays the receiver's as \
bad as the thief. \
\
 Amas1s, king of wa ob\uc0\u383 erving that his \u383 ub- \
jets undervalued him, on account of his having \
been formerly in a meaner condition, commanded \
that a ve\uc0\u383 \u383 el of the fine\u383 t gold \u383 hould be made to \
wa\uc0\u383 h his feet in; and having kept it \u383 ome time \u383 or \
that ba\uc0\u383 e u\u383 e, ordered it to be new molten, ca\u383 t \
into the form of a deity, and \uc0\u383 et up in one of the \
Egyptian temples; upon which the people began \
to wor\uc0\u383 hip it with the mo\u383 t zealous devotion : this \
Ama\uc0\u383 is taking notice of, cunningly a\u383 ked them \
why they \uc0\u383 o re\u383 pected that which was before \u383 uch a \
di\uc0\u383 bonourable ve\u383 \u383 el? To which they an\u383 wered, He- \
cau\uc0\u383 e that now it had a divine form. This was all \
the king wanted, and immediately catching at their \
words, he \uc0\u383 aid, C/, Egyptians! even thus, though \
once an inferior member of the commonwealth, \uc0\u383 hould \
you regard Ama\uc0\u383 is, \u383 ecing he is now your king, and \
forgetting what I was, reverence what I am. \
\
THe \uc0\u383 cholars of Trinity College, Dublin, had, \
in a merry humour, invited them\uc0\u383 elves one night \
to \uc0\u383 upper with the celebrated Dean Swift; he re- \
ceired them with great civility, but to their \uc0\u383 ur- \
\
\
pri\uc0\u383 e, \u383 upper was brought up before they could i- \
E | \
\
\
magine it was ready. The di\uc0\u383 hes were all cover- \
ed, and the Dean being \uc0\u383 eated, Come, gentlemen, \
\uc0\u383 aid he, uncover; which they did, and found the \
di\uc0\u383 hes contained nothing but ragouts of old books; \
at which, though perhaps not well plea\uc0\u383 ed, they \
forced their faces into a grin of complai\uc0\u383 ance, as \
admiring the Dean's wit, not doubting-to be \uc0\u383 ure \
but the \uc0\u383 econd would make amends for the in\u383 ipi- \
dity of the fir\uc0\u383 t. But here alfo they were di\u383 ap- \
pointed; for the \uc0\u383 econd cour\u383 e making its appear- \
ance,\'94 and they uncovering the di\uc0\u383 hes as they had \
done before, nothing was found but \uc0\u383 alt. There, \
\uc0\u383 aid the Dean, is a fea\u383 t for Plato; there is Attic \
alt for you ; indulge, indulge. The \uc0\u383 econd cour\u383 e \
being removed, in came the third, which con\uc0\u383 i\u383 t- \
ed of plates covered, in number tallying with the \
gue\uc0\u383 ts: each uncovering his plate found half-a- \
crown. Some took them up, others left them; \
and thus ended the entertainment, the Dean u\uc0\u383 h- \
cr ing his gue\uc0\u383 ts to the door in the waiter's phra\u383 e, \
Kindly welcome, gentlemen. \
\
A 6c00D woman bringing an infant to church \
to be chri\uc0\u383 tened, the par\u383 on taking the boy in his \
arms, defired to know what he \uc0\u383 hould call it; Lord \
ble\uc0\u383 s you, Sir, an\u383 wered the mother, any thing, /o \
it be but a \uc0\u383 cripture name: Nay, but mi\u383 tre\u383 s, \u383 aid \
the doctor, it is nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary you \u383 hould tell me: why \
then, replied the woman, after \uc0\u383 ome pau\u383 e, an't \
plea\uc0\u383 e your Reverence, call it, ay, call it Belzebub. \
\
ANEXAGORAS, the Grecian philo\uc0\u383 opher, find- \
ing a certain nobleman who was very eager to pro- \
fit by his di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e and in\u383 tructions, at the \u383 ame \
time very flow in contributing towards his main- \
tenance, \uc0\u383 poke to him thus; Look ye, my lord, if \
\
\
\
cu defire to fee my light, you mu\uc0\u383 t adminifl-r oil to \
\
\
my lamp. \
TAE famous Scipio being at a time procrrator \
\
\
purveyor for the city of Rome, when there raged \
\
\
a great famine, he was upon the point of \uc0\u383 etting \
\uc0\u383 ail from Afia with provi\u383 ion, but his pilct toking \
notice of the turbulency of the weather, di\uc0\u383 \u383 uaded \
him from it as dangerous; to which that truly no- \
ble Roman returned this gallant an\uc0\u383 wer, it is nece\u383  \
\uc0\u383 ary that 1 \u383 hould go, not that I \u383 hould live. \
\
A GRECIAN \uc0\u383 age being at \u383 ea in the \u383 ame ve\u383 - \
\uc0\u383 el with three notorious wicked men, they (a tem- \
ve\uc0\u383 t \u383 uddenly ari\u383 ing) began to pray, but he per- \
\uc0\u383 uaded them to hold their tongues, 4%, as he \u383 aid, \
the gods \uc0\u383 hould know they were there. \
\
AN Iri\uc0\u383 h footman war packing up his m fter's \
cloaths and \uc0\u383 ome other chings, but Tous \'a9 them \
down all in the middle, they 17 Love the edge \
of the trunk, \uc0\u383 o that \'b7 he could not \u383 h! ut over the \
cover, while the \uc0\u383 ides and corners were almo\u383 t \
empty; pugh, the devil hung the trunk, \uc0\u383 aid he, \
upon my \uc0\u383 oul I have put more inte the trunk than it \
will hold, and it is not full yet. \
\
A PERSON \uc0\u383 eeing a very bad picture, ob\u383 erved \
that it might be wor\uc0\u383 hipped withour any breach of \
the \uc0\u383 econd commandment; and being de\u383 ired to \
give his rea\uc0\u383 on \u383 or it, he an\u383 wered, becau/e it was \
like nothing that is in heaven above, or on the carth \
beneath, or in the waters under the earth. \
\
A cER TAin Roman knight came to \uc0\u383 olicit \u383 ome \
avour , of the emperor Trajan, but mi\uc0\u383 carrying, \
und being very old, both with gray hairs and beard, \
in a few days afterwards he \uc0\u383 tood in his way a \u383 e- \
cond time, with a fre\uc0\u383 h petition, to the fame ef- \
ck with the !a\uc0\u383 t; however, \u383 caring that he \u383 hould \
\
E323 \
\
\
be known again, and rejected for an impertinent, \
he very \uc0\u383 agaciou\u383 ly \u383 haved him\u383 elf, and dyed his \
hair black, hoping by that means to appear young, \
and e\uc0\u383 cape the emperor's notice; but Trajan the \
minute he faw him reconnoitred his old plague; \
taking the petition therefore from his hand, and \
looking it over, really, \uc0\u383 aid he, jeeringly, 1 \u383 hould \
| be very glad to grant what you require, but J de- \
nied it but a day or two ago to your father, and I \
| think it would be a downright \uc0\u383 candal to give that \
| to the fon which JI refu\uc0\u383 ed to him that got him. \
| A FRENCH pri\uc0\u383 oner of \u383 ome di\u383 tinction being \
| at Port\uc0\u383 mouth, went out of curio\u383 ity one Sunday \
[- morning to church, where the then mayor's two \
daughters (very fine girls) were; Begar, \uc0\u383 aid he, \
= when he came home, two ver fine young ladies \
were at chorch dis morning. Who were they? de- \
manded his landlady; begar, an\uc0\u383 wered he, 7 for- \
got de names, but what be dat thing that nibby, \
nibby de gra\uc0\u383 s? Ob, \u383 aid his landlady, a cow ; Non, \
non, cried the Frenchman; A \uc0\u383 heep, perhaps, \u383 aid \
| -thez non. A bull; non. Perhaps then you mean \
| a hor\uc0\u383 e; non, non; begar, what be the hor\u383 e's wife's \
| name? Oh, a mare, an\uc0\u383 wered the landlady; ay, ay, \
\
a mayor ; de mayor's tus daughters were at chorch, \
dis morning: two ver pretty young ladies, begar, \
dey made water in my mout. \
\
A very deformed and ugly fellow taking Di- \
ogenes the Cynic home to dine with him one day, \
his hou\uc0\u383 e being very \u383 tately, and furni\u383 hed with \
elegance, the philo\uc0\u383 opher \u383 pit in his face, and be- \
ing alked why he did fo, an\uc0\u383 wered, becau\u383 e it is tie \
445 tieft-place I fee about me. \
\
A DIsPUTE once ari\uc0\u383 ing between a Spaniard \
and a German, about which of their two nations \
\
\
was the mo\uc0\u383 t cunning and \u383 ubtle; they agreed that \
he of them who could mo\uc0\u383 t ingeniou\u383 ly \u383 teal \u383 hould \
not only be allowed the preference with regard to \
country, but al\uc0\u383 o receive from the other twenty \
ducats; this matter was to be decided by appoint- \
ed judges; and the Spaniard directly undertook to \
\uc0\u383 teal away eggs from a bird while the \u383 at upon her \
\
\
ne\uc0\u383 t without di\u383 turbing her; accordingly going in- \
\
\
to a wood, as \uc0\u383 oon as the birds were roo\u383 ted, the \
Spaniard prepared to mount a tree, pulling off his \
laced doublet, his gold chain, dagger, &c. and \
laying them at the bottom of it; he was now al- \
mo\uc0\u383 t at top, when the Ge:man called, \'a9 Well, \
\'ab Sir, \uc0\u383 hall you be able to take the eggs? Ay, no \
\'ab doubt on't, (\uc0\u383 ays the other); Well then, (\u383 aid \
e the German), I'll make one clau\uc0\u383 e more to the \
&\'ab bargain, you \uc0\u383 hall keep what you take, and I'll \
\'ab keep what I take; upon which laying hold cf \
his cloaths, he very fairly \uc0\u383 heered off with them, \
lcaving the Spaniard to \uc0\u383 hift for him\u383 elf, and ger \
down the tree as well as he could. \
\
A Ro MAN Je\uc0\u383 uit coming to a certain Friar in \
France with a merchandize of Pope's indulgences, \
as he was preaching in the morning, he promi\uc0\u383 ed \
his auditors that in the a\uc0\u383 terncon he would \u383 hew \
them a mo\uc0\u383 t p:eciors relique, even a quill of the \
angel Michaels wing, which the devil in his con- \
te\uc0\u383 t with him, mentioned in the Revelations, pull- \
ed out; now the \uc0\u383 chool ma\u383 ter of the place (at \
who\uc0\u383 e hou\u383 e the Je\u383 uit lodged) was \u383 ecretly a Hu- \
gonot, and hearing this impudent lie, tcok the op- \
portunity while his Reverence was et dinner gf \
conveying this boa\uc0\u383 ted quill fram the place where \
it lay, and put in the reom of it a parcel of dirty \
coals. This the Je\uc0\u383 uit never \u383 ufpeted, therefore \
\
\
went to church in high confidence of \uc0\u383 urpri\u383 ing the: \
\
\
people, and enriching him\uc0\u383 elf by their zidiculous \
credulity; being mounted in the pulpit, \'a9 Here \
\'93 (faid he, di\uc0\u383 playing his ca\u383 e) here, dearly beloy- \
* ed brethren, is the wonderful quill I told you \
*: of, 2 quill\'97but hold, you \uc0\u383 hall \u383 ee it;\'93 upon \
which, opening his repo\uc0\u383 itory, he found not the quill \
\
\
but the coals; however, determining that he would \
not lo\uc0\u383 e his labour, and the devil being ready at \
\
\
his elbow, \'a9 Ble\uc0\u383 s my \u383 oul; (\u383 aid he), what have \
done? mi\uc0\u383 took the ca\u383 e as I live; but it is ve- \
ry well as it is, this is a rare relique too; yes, \
\'ab dearly beloved, in\uc0\u383 tead of the quill I told you of, \
\'ab belonging to the angel Michael, I have brought \
* you \uc0\u383 ome of the coals with which that glorious \
* and ble\uc0\u383 \u383 ed martyr St. Lawrence was roa\u383 ted to \
death on a Lon. \
\
IT is a. cu\uc0\u383 tom frequent among the di\u383 \u383 enting \
mini\uc0\u383 ters, when they catch any one Heeping i in their \
meeting-hou\uc0\u383 es, to cry out, There is no fleeping \
\'ab in hell, there is no \uc0\u383 lceping in hell.\'94 One Sun- \
day a\uc0\u383 ternoon, a holderforth e\u383 pying a \u383 heep of the \
fold nodding, immediately began to bellow out the \
u\uc0\u383 ual exclamation, when the lay-brother \u383 tarting up, \
roared out as loud as his reverence, No fleeping \
in hell, quoth a, \'a9 by G\'97d, then it is becau\uc0\u383 e \
& there are no \uc0\u383 uch preachers as you there.\'94 \
\
A QUAKER, that was a barber, being \uc0\u383 ued by \
the par\uc0\u383 on for tythes; Lea and Nay went to \
him and demanded the rea\uc0\u383 on why he troubled \
him, \uc0\u383 eeing he had never dealings with him in his \
whole life. Why, fays the par\uc0\u383 on, it is for tythes.\'93 \
\'ab For tythes, \uc0\u383 ays the Quaker, I prithee, friend, \
upon what account?\'93 \'84Why, \uc0\u383 ays the par\u383 on, \u383 or \
preaching in the church.\'94 \'a9 Alas! then, replied \
\
\
\
the Quaker, I have nothing to do to pay thee; for \
I come not there.\'94 Oh! but you might, \uc0\u383 ays \
the par\uc0\u383 on, 8 the doors are always open at conve- \
nient times.\'93 And thereupon he told him, he \
would be paid, \uc0\u383 eeing it was his due. Yea and \
Nay hereupon \uc0\u383 hak'd his ears, and making \u383 everal \
wry faces, departed, and immediately entered his \
action (it being a corporation- town) again\uc0\u383 t the par- \
\uc0\u383 on for forty \u383 hillings: The par\u383 on, upon notice of \
this, came to him, and very hotly demanded, Why \
he put \uc0\u383 uch a di\u383 grace upon him? and for what he \
did owe him the money? \'84Truly, friend, replied \
the Quaker, for trimming.\'94 \'93For trimming, \uc0\u383 aid \
\
\
the par\uc0\u383 on; Why, I was never trimmed by you in \
\
\
my life.\'94 \'84Oh! but thou might'\uc0\u383 t have come \
and been trimmed, if thou had\uc0\u383 t plea\u383 ed, for my \
\
\
doors are always open at convenient times as well \
\
\
thine.\'93 \
A PARSON, in the country, taking his text in \
St. Matthew, chap. viii. ver\uc0\u383 e 14. And Peter's \
\
\
wife's mother lay fick of afever,\'94 preached for three \
\
\
Sundays together on the fame \uc0\u383 ubject: Soon after \
two country fellows going acro\uc0\u383 s the church-yard, \
and hearing the bell toll, one a\uc0\u383 ked the other, who \
it was for? \'a9 Nay, I can't tell; perhaps, rephed \
he, it is for Peter's wife's mother, for \uc0\u383 he has been \
fick of a fever the\uc0\u383 e three weeks.\'93 \
\
IN a little country town, it happened that the \
\uc0\u383 quire of the pari\u383 h's lady came to church after her \
lying-in, to return thanks, or, as it is commonly \
called, to be churched: The par\uc0\u383 on aiming to be \
complai\uc0\u383 ant, and thinking plain Woman a littie \
too familiar, in\uc0\u383 tead of \u383 aying, 4 O Lord fave this \
\
\
wen \uc0\u383 aid, O Lord fave this Lady.\'93 The clerk. \
\
\
re\uc0\u383 olving not to be behind-hand with him, an\u383 wer- \
ed, Who putteth her lady\uc0\u383 hip's tru\u383 t in thee.\'94 \
A CHANDLER having had \uc0\u383 ome candles \u383 tole, \
one bid him be of good cheer; \'93 for in a \uc0\u383 hort \
time, \uc0\u383 ays he, I am confident, they'll all come to \
. FE \
\
\\x Oxford \uc0\u383 tudent who had put up at an inn, \
in is way from London, without con\uc0\u383 ulting the \
\uc0\u383 tate of his finances, found in the morning that he \
would \uc0\u383 tand a bad chance of getting his hor\u383 e and \
him\uc0\u383 elf genteelly off, if his imagination \u383 ailed him \
in a project; but luckily having a very. flly land- \
lord to deal with, he per\uc0\u383 uaded him that he was \u383 o \
conver\uc0\u383 ant\} in brewery, and the draught of beer, \
that he could draw mild and \uc0\u383 tale out of the \u383 ame \
butt. 'The landlord being very curious to have \
the experiment tried, ju\uc0\u383 t as the Oxonian's hor\u383 e \
was ready, they went down into the cellar, and \
Laving b'tched upon a fre\uc0\u383 h butt, the Oxonian bor - \
ed a hole in the upper part, then turning to the \
lendlo: d for the peg, which he was unprovided \
with, \'a9 Keep your hands here, faid he, till I go \
and fetch one.\'94 'The landlord's patience was doubt- \
le\uc0\u383 s tired: befc re his return, as he rode away for Ox- \
ford with full \uc0\u383 peed, \
Two Wel\uc0\u383 hmen at an inn had a dozen of eggs \
for breakfa\uc0\u383 t; and after they had paid, and got a \
mile out of town, one \uc0\u383 aid to the other, he was \
glad he was there, for hur did cheat hur landlord \
this morning; for in hur \uc0\u383 hix eggs which hur had, \
hur had two \uc0\u383 chickings, and hur paid never a var- \
ding for them. \
AA hone\uc0\u383 t Jack Tar being at a quak ker's meet - \
ing, heard the friend that was holding ferth \uc0\u383 peak \
wich great emotion again\uc0\u383 t the il! e-n\u383 equence at \
\
\
giving the lie in converfation, and therefore he re- \
commended, when any \uc0\u383 tory was told that \u383 eemed \
de\uc0\u383 titute of probability, to cry Twang; which he \
\uc0\u383 aid would not irritate people to pa\u383 \u383 ion, as the lie \
would. Afterwards he digre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed into the \u383 tory of \
\
\
the great miracle, 5000 being fed with five loaves \
\
\
of bread, &c. and told them that they \\ were not \uc0\u383 uch \
\
\
loaves as were u\uc0\u383 ed now, but were as big as moun- \
\
\
tains at the hearing of which, the tar uttered wita \
a loud voice, Twang; \'93 What, fays the quaker, \
\
\
do\uc0\u383 t thou think I lie, friend?\'93 \'93 No, fays Jack, \
but I am thinking how big the ovens were that bak- \
\
\
ed them.\'94 \
\
\
A WELCH vicar being to read the cur\uc0\u383 es (as \
the cu\uc0\u383 tom is) upon Ath-Wene\u383 day, and the people \
\
\
to \uc0\u383 ay Amen, turning over the leaf, and finding \
them to be many, \uc0\u383 aid, \'a9 Dearly beloved brethren, \
\
\
IT am to read a great many cur\uc0\u383 es to you: but be- \
\
\
eau\uc0\u383 e I am loth to trouble my\u383 elf and yon hatience, \
\
\
I will end them all in one: The curie of God \
light upon you all. Amen.\'94 \
\
\
Ax old gentleman who had married a ane young \
\
\
lady, being terribly afraid of cuckoldom, took her \
\
\
to ta\uc0\u383 k one day, and a\u383 ked her if \u383 he had con\u383 ider- \
ed what a crying fin it was in a woman to cuckold \
\
\
her hu\uc0\u383 band? Lord, my dcar, faid \u383 he, what do you \
\
\
mean? I never had \uc0\u383 uch a thing in my head, nor \
\
never will. No, no, replicd he, I \uc0\u383 hall have it in \
\
my head, you will have it \uc0\u383 omewhere el\u383 e. \
THERE was a poor young woman who had \
\
\
brought her\uc0\u383 elf even to death's door with-grief \u383 or \
\
\
her \uc0\u383 ick hu\u383 band, but the good man her father did \
all he could to comfort her. Come, child, \uc0\u383 aid \
\
\
he, we are all mortal. Pluck up a good heart, my \
child; for let the wor\uc0\u383 t come to the wort, I have \
\
\
ee.\'94 \'a9 Alas! Sir, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ays \u383 he, what d'ye talk of another hu\u383 band for ? \
Why, you had as good have \uc0\u383 tuck a dagger to my \
\
\
heart, No, no; if ever I think of another hu\uc0\u383 - \
band, mayty\'97\'97\'94? Without any more. ado, the \
man dies, and the woman, immediately, break: \
out into \uc0\u383 uch tran\u383 ports of tearing her hair, and beat. \
ing her brea\uc0\u383 t, that every body thought \u383 he would \
\
\
have run \uc0\u383 tark-mad upon it. But upon \u383 econd \
\
\
thoughts, \uc0\u383 he wipes her eyes, lifts them up, and \
cries; \'93 Heaven's will be done!\'94 and turning to \
her father; Pray, Sir, \uc0\u383 ays \u383 he, about t'other \
\
\
hu\uc0\u383 band you were \u383 peaking of, is he here in the \
\
\
hou\uc0\u383 e,\'94 \
A cOUNTRYMAN \uc0\u383 ubp\'9cna'd \u383 ora witne\u383 s upon a \
\
\
trial on an action for defamation; he being \uc0\u383 worn, \
\
\
the judge bad him repeat the very \uc0\u383 ame words he \
\
\
had heard \uc0\u383 poken. \'a9 The fellow was loth to \u383 peak, \
\
\
and hummed and hawed for a good \uc0\u383 pace; but be- \
\
\
ing urged by the judge, he at la\uc0\u383 t \u383 poke. * My \
lord, \uc0\u383 aid he, you are a cuekold:\'93 the judge called \
\
\
to him, and bade him \uc0\u383 peak to the j JV. as there \
\
\
were twelve of them. \
\
THe late earl of 8 kept an Iri\uc0\u383 h footman, \
who, perhaps, was as expert in making bulls as the \
mo\uc0\u383 t learned of his countrymen, My lord having \
\uc0\u383 ent him one day with a pre\u383 ent to a certain judge, \
\
\
the judge in return \uc0\u383 ent my jord half a dozen of \
\
\
live partridges, witha letter; the partridges flutrer- \
ing in the ba\uc0\u383 ket upon Teague's back, as he was \
carrying them home, he \uc0\u383 et down the ba\u383 ket, and \
opened the lid of it to quiet them, whereupon they \
\
\
few away. Oh! the devil burn ye, \uc0\u383 aid he, I am \
glad you are gone; but when he came home, and \
\
\
my lord read the letter, Why, Teague, \uc0\u383 aid my lord, \
\
\
Tfhndthereare half a dozen partridges in the letter. \
Now, arrah, dear honey, \uc0\u383 aid Teague, Tam glad you \
have found them in the letter, for n are all lo\uc0\u383 t \
out of the ba\uc0\u383 ket. \
\
A Iri\uc0\u383 h lawyer had a client of his own coun- \
try, who was a \uc0\u383 ailor, and having been at \u383 ea \
for \uc0\u383 ome time, his wife was married again in his \
ab\uc0\u383 ence, \u383 o he was re\u383 olved to pro\u383 ecute her: and \
coming to advife with the coun\uc0\u383 eHor, told him, \
he mu\uc0\u383 t have witne\u383 \u383 es to prove that he was alive \
when his wife married again. Arrah, by my \uc0\u383 houl, \
but that \uc0\u383 hall be impo\u383 \u383 ible, \u383 aid the other; for my \
\uc0\u383 hip-mates are all gone to \u383 ea again upon a long \
voyage, and \uc0\u383 han't return the\u383 e twelvemonths.\'93 Oh \
then, an\uc0\u383 wered the coun\u383 ellor, there can be nothing \
done in it; and what a pity it is that \uc0\u383 uch a brave \
cau\uc0\u383 e \u383 hould be lo\u383 t now, only becau\u383 e you cannot \
prove your\uc0\u383 elf alive.\'93 | \
\
Two widows \uc0\u383 itting by a fire, were chattering \
together about their dead hu\uc0\u383 bands: and one faid, \
Let us have another candle, for my poor husband \
loved light; God \uc0\u383 end him light everla\u383 ting; and \
\uc0\u383 aid the other, Let us \u383 tir up the fire, my husband \
loved \uc0\u383 ire; I wi\u383 h him fire everla\u383 ting. \
\
A TRAVELLER: relating \uc0\u383 ome of his adven- \
tures, told the company, that he. and his \uc0\u383 ervant \
made fifty wild Arabians run: which. \uc0\u383 tartling \
them, he ob\uc0\u383 erved, that there was no \u383 uch great \
matter in it; for, \uc0\u383 ays he, we run, and they ran \
\
\
after us, \
\
\
Dr an-Swi\uc0\u383 t having preached an a\u383 \u383 ize \u383 ermon \
in Ireland was afterwards invited to dine with the \
judges, and having in his diicour\uc0\u383 e con\u383 idered the \
u\uc0\u383 e and abu\u383 e of the law, he had bore a little hard \
\
upon tho\uc0\u383 e coun\u383 cllors who plead cau\u383 es which they \
E 6 \
\
\
\
know in their con\uc0\u383 ciences to be wrong; when din- \
ner was over, and the gla\uc0\u383 s began to go round, a \
young barri\uc0\u383 ter who happened to be pre\u383 ent, took \
occa\uc0\u383 ion to retort upon the dean, and after many \
altercations on both \uc0\u383 ides, the coun\u383 ellor at la\u383 t a\u383 k- \
ed him, If the devil were to die whether a par- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 on might not be found for money to preach his \
funeral \uc0\u383 ermon?\'94 \'a9 Yes, \u383 aid Swift, and I would \
\
\
gladly be the man, for I would then give the de- \
\
\
vil his due, as I have this day done his children.\'93 \
A Engli\uc0\u383 hman and a Scotchman coming in \
both together ta an inn on the road, found nothing \
to be had but a piece of mutton and a chicken; fo \
\
one would have the chicken and the cther would \
have it, and began to quarrel. The landlady de- \
fired they would be plea\uc0\u383 ed to cat it together; but \
Sawney, who\uc0\u383 e head was building ca\u383 tles in the air, \
faid, It \uc0\u383 hould be re\u383 erved till the morning: and \
he that dreamed the be\uc0\u383 t dream \u383 hould eat it for \
his breakfa\uc0\u383 t. So eating the mutton for their \u383 up- \
per, they went to bed. The Scotchman could not \
fleep one wink for thinking what he \uc0\u383 hould dream. \
The Engli\uc0\u383 hman ob\u383 erving where the chicken was \
\uc0\u383 et, aro\u383 e and eat it. The next morning when both \
were up, the Scotchman faid very ha\uc0\u383 tily, that he \
dreamed the brave\uc0\u383 t dream in the world,\'93 That he \
\uc0\u383 aw the heavens open, and that a quire of angels \
carried him up to St. Andrew in heaven.\'94 And \
\uc0\u383 aid the Engli\u383 hman, \'a9 I dreamed that I \u383 aw you \
carried up to heaven; and thinking you would ne- \
ver come down again, I ro\uc0\u383 e and eat the chicken; \
for I knew you would have no occa\uc0\u383 ion for fowl \
there.\'93 \
\
A JUDGE upon the bench, asked an old. man \
what age he was? Iam eight and fouricore, my \
\
\
lord, \uc0\u383 ays he; and why not four\u383 core and eight? \u383 ay \
the judge; becau\uc0\u383 e, \u383 ays he, I was eight before T \
was four\uc0\u383 core. | \
\
Two bonny Scots, having ju\uc0\u383 t got a place at St. \
James's, and being in bed together, the one in his \
fleep baul'd out terribly, which the other hearing, \
de\uc0\u383 ired to know what was the matter; ne \
quoth he,\'93 Mon, P've dreamed a very ugly dream.\'94 \
\'ab Prithee, lod, did\uc0\u383 t dream of the deel?\'94 \u383 ays \
Wally. \'84Na, twas wor\uc0\u383 e than the deel and hell \
to boot, \uc0\u383 ays Sawney, for I dreamed I was tran\u383 - \
ported into my awn country, never more to \uc0\u383 ee \
aud England again,\'94 \'a9 Ah, mon, fays Wally, that \
was very terrible indeed.\'94 \
\
A old woman being fick, began to have 8 \
thoughts of death; and called to her grand\uc0\u383 on, a \
lad about fourteen, to pray by her. The boy brings \
the hornbook, and kneeled down by her bed-fide, \
n it, cry'd the \
boy, I cannot tell the other letter. The old wo- \
man \uc0\u383 aid, what, out already, love! Oh, fays he, \
now I have it, B, granny, cry'd the boy. That's \
a dear foul, \uc0\u383 ays the, \'a9 What a comfort it is to \
have a grand\uc0\u383 on that's a \u383 cholar to pray by one,when \
one's fick.\'93 \
\
A COUNTRYMAN ju\uc0\u383 t come to London, going \
into Hyde Park to \uc0\u383 ee the cannon which was taken \
from Cherberg (in France) \uc0\u383 aid, I wonder how they \
can bore the guns in this manner. One of the \
artillery men told him, they did not bore them, but \
ca\uc0\u383 t them in clay. \'a9 No, no, \u383 ays the country- \
man, I am not \uc0\u383 o great fool neither, to believe * \
can make bra\uc0\u383 s guns of clay.\'93 \
\
An arch boy, cleaning a Scotchman's \uc0\u383 hoes (who \
was ju\uc0\u383 t come to London for preferment) acciden- \
\
\
\
\
tally rubbed the bruth over Sawney's plaid \uc0\u383 tock- \
\
\
ings, which offending his nicety, the boy began \
to be \uc0\u383 aucy: \'84 Sirrah, \u383 ays Sawney, ye dinna ken \
\
\
tull whom ye are \uc0\u383 peaking; for I have gotten a \
\
\
place at St. James's, ye foul dug ye.\'94 You a place \
at St. James's! replies the boy, I believe 'tis a \
d n'd lie; for Pm \uc0\u383 ure you look more \'93 like \
\
\
a lou\uc0\u383 e-cracker to the king of the beggars at St. \
\
\
Giles's.\'93 8 \
Kix G Charles the \uc0\u383 econd, returning from hunt- \
ing, happening to pa\uc0\u383 s through a little village where \
\
\
there were a parcel. cf boys playing, but one of. \
\
\
them \uc0\u383 tanding in the road, the king bid him get \
out of the way, on which the boy ran home as \
\
\
fa\uc0\u383 t as he could, crying, Mother, mother, the king \
\uc0\u383 poke to me; The king \u383 poke to you, ha, don't \
\
\
tell lies, \uc0\u383 irrah: Yes, indeed he did, \u383 aid the boy: \
Why, what did he \uc0\u383 ay to you, quoth \u383 he: Why, \
he \uc0\u383 aid, Get out of the way, you little \u383 on of a \
whore, or I \uc0\u383 hall ride over you. \
\
A CERTAIN pari\uc0\u383 h clerk, who was dim-fighted, \
and could not read the fir\uc0\u383 t line of the p\u383 alm on a \
dark cloudy day, begun to rub his eyes; and hav- \
\
\
ing rubbed them for \uc0\u383 ome time to no purpo\u383 e; he \
\
\
began to make this apology\'97\'97 My eyes are won- \
derous dim The people mi\uc0\u383 taking this for the fir\u383 t \
line, \uc0\u383 ung in an orderly manner\'97Why, I cannot \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ee at all, \u383 ays he. Then they \u383 ung this likewi\u383 e\'97- \
Then getting up, he bawls out, I think the people \
are all grown mad. They then \uc0\u383 ung that al\u383 o: \
\
\
whereupon he threw down the book in a pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, \
and concluded with, A plague confound you all. \
\
\
Tux cocket-writer at the cu\uc0\u383 tom-hou\u383 e, who\u383 e \
hand was as unintelligible as you can conceive \
any \uc0\u383 crawl to be, was one day called upon by the \
\
\
* \
\
\
\
\
board to explain his writing; and a\uc0\u383 ter puzzling: \
him\uc0\u383 elf to no purpo\u383 e, \'84Gentlemen, \u383 aid he, I \
beg you'll \uc0\u383 end for \u383 ome other per\u383 on to explain \
\
\
] it, for it is no part of my bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s. I am cocket- - \
writer, and not cocket-reader.\'94 \
\
I A PRINCE laughing at one of his courtiers, \
\
2 whom he. had employed in \uc0\u383 everal emba\u383 \u383 ies, told \
\
\
him he looked like an owl. \'a9 I know not, an- \
\{wered the courtier, what I look like; but this I \
now, that I have had the honour \uc0\u383 everal times to \
epre\uc0\u383 ent your maje\u383 ty's per\u383 on. \
A YOUNG fellow riding down a \uc0\u383 teep hill, and \
Joubting the foot of it was boggi\uc0\u383 h, called out to \
clown that was ditching, and a\uc0\u383 ked him if it was \
ard at the bottom. Ay, an\uc0\u383 wered the country- \
man, it is hard enough at the bottom, I'Il warrant \
you. But in half a dozen \uc0\u383 teps the hor\u383 e \u383 unk up \
5 to the \uc0\u383 addle-\u383 kcirts, which made the young gallant \
a whip, \uc0\u383 pur, cur\u383 e, and \u383 wear. Why, thou whore \
\uc0\u383 on ra\u383 cal, \u383 aid he to the ditcher, did\u383 t thou not \
, tell me it was hard at the bottom? \'a9 Ay, replied \
a the other, but you are not half way at the bottom \
by yet.\'94 | \
e A JUSTICE of peace \uc0\u383 eeing a par\u383 on on a very \
\uc0\u383 tately hor\u383 e, riding between London and Hamp- \
\'fe \uc0\u383 tead, \u383 aid to the gentlemen who were with him, \
JT \
\
\
\
Do you \uc0\u383 ee what a beautiful hor\u383 e that proud par- k \
\
\uc0\u383 on has got? I'll banter him a little.\'93 Doctor, j \
Ee faid he, you don't follow the example of your great | \
: KW ma\uc0\u383 ter, who was humbly content to ride upon an \
\'84 | afs.\'94 \'a9 Why really, Sir, replied the par\uc0\u383 on, the \
| king has made \uc0\u383 o many a\u383 \u383 es ju\u383 tices, that an ho- \
\uc0\u383 e ne\u383 t clergyman can hardly find one to ride if he \
'C had a mind to it.\'93 25 \
0 A GENTLEMAN having received \uc0\u383 ome abu\u383 e, \
\
\
in pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ing through one of the inns of chancery, \
\
\
from \uc0\u383 ome of the impudent clerks, was advi\u383 ed to \
complain to the principal, which he did according. \
ly; and coming before him, acco\uc0\u383 ted him in the \
following manner: \'a9 I have been gro\uc0\u383 ly abu\u383 ed \
here by \uc0\u383 ome of the ra\u383 cals of this hou\u383 e, and un- \
\
\
der\uc0\u383 tanding that you are the principal, I am come - \
\
\
to acquaint you with it.\'94 \
\
ASCOTCH par\uc0\u383 on in the rump time, in his bab- \
bling prayer, \uc0\u383 aid, \'a9 Laird ble\u383 s the grand coun- \
cil, the paliament, and grant they may all hang to- \
gether.\'94 A country fellow \uc0\u383 tanding by, \u383 aid, \
\
\
\'93Ves, yes, with all my heart, and the \uc0\u383 coner the \
\
\
better; and I am \uc0\u383 ure it is the prayers of all good \
people.\'93 But, friends, \uc0\u383 aid Sawney, I don't mean \
as that fellow means, but pray they may all hang \
together in accord and concord. \'93 No matter \
what cord, rephed the other, \uc0\u383 o it is but a \u383 trong \
cord.\'93 \
\
ONE of the Scotch teachers preaching upon \
drunkenne\uc0\u383 s, told 1 hearers, there were four \u383 orts \
of drunkenne\uc0\u383 s. 1. To be drunk like a \u383 ow tum- \
bling in the mire, le many of his pari\uc0\u383 h 2. \
There is to be drunk like a dog; the dog fills the \
\uc0\u383 tomach of him, and \u383 pews all out again; and thou \
John Jame\uc0\u383 on wa\u383 t this way drunk the other day. \
3. There is to be drunk like a goofe. Of all drun- \
kenne\uc0\u383 s, Sirs, beware of the drunkenne\u383 s of the \
goo\uc0\u383 e, for it never re\u383 ts, but con\u383 tantly dips the \
gobb of it in the water. You are all drunk this \
way, Sirs; I need name none of you. 4. There \
is to be drunk like a \uc0\u383 heep. The \u383 heep \u383 eldom or \
never drinks, but \uc0\u383 ometimes wets the mouth of it \
in the water, and ri\uc0\u383 es up as well as ever: and I \
malelt a am u\uc0\u383 ed to be drunk thus, Sirs. But now, \
\
. \uc0\u383 aid he, I fee two gentlemen in the kirk; and, \
\'f6 gentlemen, you are both \uc0\u383 trangers to me, but 1 \
mu\uc0\u383 t vindicate my\u383 elf at your hands. I have here \
the cur\uc0\u383 ede\u383 t pari\u383 h that ever God put breath in; \
for all my preaching again\uc0\u383 t drunkenne\u383 s, they will \
gang into an alehou\uc0\u383 e after \u383 ermon, and get a mickle \
e = cup\uc0\u383 ul of hot ale, and they will \u383 ay, Would we \
had the mini\uc0\u383 ter in the mid\u383 t of it! Now, gentle- \
men, judge ye how I am rewarded for my good \
\
\
preaching ! \
\'f6 ANOTHER Scotch par\uc0\u383 on preaching upon thefe \
y words, Re\uc0\u383 i\u383 t the devil, and he will fly away from \
\'a9 vou, began. thus: My beloved, you are all here 0 \
d to-day, but wot ye who is among ye? Even the \'f6 \
n mickle horned devil. Ye cannot \uc0\u383 ee him, but by 3 \
g the eye of faith I \uc0\u383 ee him. But \u383 ome of you \u383 ay, | \
er What \uc0\u383 hall we do with him, now we have him i \
\
\
4 here? How \uc0\u383 hall we de\u383 troy him? We will hang \
him. Alas! my beloved there are not \uc0\u383 o many \
\
\
: [ \
n towes in the pari\uc0\u383 h as will hang him, he is as light | \
ts as a feather. Then \uc0\u383 ome of you will \u383 ay, We will N \
- drown him. Humph, my beloved, there is too | \
2. much cork in his a\'97, he's as \uc0\u383 ouple as an eel, he 1 \
he will not fink. Others of you will \uc0\u383 ay, We will \
du burn him. Na, na, Sirs, you may \uc0\u383 cald your \u383 als, \
y. but ye canna burn him, for all the fires in hell \
n- could never yet \uc0\u383 inge a hair of his tail. Now, Sirs, \
\
\
he ye canna find a way among you to kill him, but I \
he will find it. What way will this be, Sirs? We \
his \uc0\u383 hall even \u383 hoot tim. Wherewith \u383 hall we \u383 hoot \
re him? We \uc0\u383 hall \u383 hoot him with the bible. Now, \
or | Sirs, I \uc0\u383 hall \u383 hoot him pre\u383 ently. So, pre\u383 enting \
"it the bible, as \uc0\u383 oldiers do their muskets, he cries out, \
| I Toott, toott, toott: Now he is \uc0\u383 hot; there lies the \
, | foul thief dead as a herring. \
\
\
\
BEN John\uc0\u383 on owing a vintner \u383 on:e money, re\'97 \
frained his hou\uc0\u383 e; The vintner meeting him by \
chance, asked him for his money; and alfo told \
him, if he would come to his hou\uc0\u383 e, and an\u383 wer \
him four que\uc0\u383 tions, he would forgive him'the debt. \
Ben John\uc0\u383 on very gladly agreed, and went at the \
time appointed, called for a bottle of claret, and \
drank to the vintner, prai\uc0\u383 ing the wine at a great \
rate. Says the vintner, This is not our bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s, \
Mr. John\uc0\u383 on; an\u383 wer me my four que\u383 tions, or el\u383 e \
you mult pay me my money, or go to jail, in \uc0\u383 hort, \
(and he had got two bailiffs waiting at the door to \
arre\uc0\u383 t him.) Pray, \u383 ays Ben, propo\u383 e your four \
que\uc0\u383 tions. Then, \u383 ays the vintner, you mu\u383 t tell \
me, fir\uc0\u383 t, What plea\u383 es God? Secondly, what \
\
\
plea\uc0\u383 es the devil? Thirdly, what be\u383 t plea\u383 es the \
\
\
world? And la\uc0\u383 tly, what be\u383 t plea\u383 es me? Well, \
\
\
| God is be\uc0\u383 t pleas'd when man for\u383 akes his \u383 in; \
The devil's be\uc0\u383 t pleas'd when men per\u383 i\u383 t therein; \
The world's be\uc0\u383 t pleas'd when you do draw good \
\
\
wine; \
\
\
And 1 be pleas'd when I do pay for mine. \
\
\
The vintner was well plea\uc0\u383 ed, and gave Mr. John- \
\
\
fon a receipt in full for the debt, and his bottle of \
\
\
elaret into the bargain. \
THe king of Sweden being with a very \uc0\u383 mall \
\
\
number of men before a town of his enemies, they, \
\
\
in deri\uc0\u383 ion of his \u383 trength, hung out a goo\u383 e for \
\
\
him to \uc0\u383 hoot at: but perceiving before night, that \
\
\
tne\uc0\u383 e few men had invaded, and \u383 et their chief holds \
on fire; they demanded of him, what his intent \
was? he an\uc0\u383 wered, it was to roa\u383 t the goo\u383 e. \
\
\
\
\
Ons asked an extravagant young \uc0\u383 park, why he \
would \uc0\u383 ell all his lands? He faid, Becau\u383 e he was \
taking a journey towards heaven, and he \uc0\u383 hould ne- \
ver come there till he had left the earth. \
\
\
Ok being asked, why he inveighed \uc0\u383 o much \
\
\
again\uc0\u383 t women, \u383 eeing \u383 o many authors had writ- \
ten fo largely in their prai\uc0\u383 e? Why truly, \u383 ays he, \
\
\
they wrote only what women ought to be; but I \
\
\
fay what indeed they are. \
Ax cid lady beholding her\uc0\u383 elf in a looking- \
\
\
gla\uc0\u383 s, and \u383 pying the wrinkles in her face, threw \
\
\
down the gla\uc0\u383 s in a rage; \u383 aying, It was \u383 trange to \
\uc0\u383 ee the difference of glaf\u383 es: fays \u383 he, I have not \
looked in a true one the\uc0\u383 e \u383 eventeen years. \
\
A CERTAIN clergyman in the welt of England \
\
\
being at the point of death, a neighbouring bre-- \
ther, who had \uc0\u383 ome intere\u383 t with his patron, ap- \
plied to him for the next pre\uc0\u383 entation; upon which \
the former, who \uc0\u383 oon after recovered, upbraided \
\
\
him with the breach of friend\uc0\u383 hip,. and faid, he \
wanted his death. No, no, doctor, fays the o- \
\
\
ther, you quite mi\uc0\u383 take, it was only your living I: - \
\
\
wanted. \
Ox intending to travel, asked a friend of Me. \
which was the neare\uc0\u383 t way to Rome? Why, fays \
\
\
he, it is not far to it; for you have no more to do, \
\
\
but-to enter in at the gate of lewd life, which leads \
to the \uc0\u383 treet of tradition, and it will bring you \u383 trait \
to the palace of \uc0\u383 upremacy, and then you are at \
his holine\uc0\u383 s' \u383 eet, and you may ki\u383 s | nis toe when \
you plea\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
Nor many years ago, a certain temporal peer, \
\
\
having, in a mo\uc0\u383 t pathetic and elaborate \u383 peech, \
\
\
expo\uc0\u383 ed the vices and irregularities of the clergy, \
\
\
and vindicated \uc0\u383 ome gentlemen of the army, from \
\
\
\
\uc0\u383 ome imputations unju\u383 tly laid upon them; a pre- \
late irritated by the nature, as well as the length of \
the \uc0\u383 peech, de\u383 ired to know when the noble lord \
would leave off preaching? The other an\uc0\u383 wered, \
The very day he was madea bi\uc0\u383 hop. \
\
One being \uc0\u383 ick, was coun\u383 elled to think of hea- \
ven: Why, whither, \uc0\u383 ays he, do you think my wi\u383 e \
is gone? They told him, to heaven: Nay, then, \
\uc0\u383 ays he, I care not w r I go, \u383 o I come not where \
\uc0\u383 he is. \
\
A TIN EER was crying for work, one asked him \
why he did not \uc0\u383 top the two hclcs in the pillory ? \
Says the tinker, if you'll lend me your head and \
ears, I'll lend you hammer and nails, and give you \
the work into the bargain. \
\
One praying in St. Paul's cathedral, his hat was \
\uc0\u383 tolen from him; of which when he complained to \
the \uc0\u383 tanders by, You \u383 hould, \u383 aid one, have watch- \
\
ed as well as prayed. 7 \
\
SoME gentlemen being a-drinking, a wench \
came up to attend them; \uc0\u383 he bcing not enough, \
in anger they knocked for more; the ma\uc0\u383 ter com- \
ing up, asked what they called for? Said they, Mu\uc0\u383 t \
we be thus attended? Have you no more whores \
in the hou\uc0\u383 e but this? Yes, Sir, \u383 ays he, pray be \
patient, I will \uc0\u383 end up my own wife immediate- \
"\'a9 ING \
| 0 A CHILD was to be chri\uc0\u383 tened, and the man \
faidsto his wife, Who do\uc0\u383 t thou think will be the \
godfather? Marry I don't know, \uc0\u383 ays the; Why, \
Will John\uc0\u383 on : O the father, \u383 ays \u383 he; will he be \
\
here ? \
A MAN complained to his wife \uc0\u383 he brongha him \
nothing: You lie like a rogue, \uc0\u383 ays \u383 he, for I bring \
you boys and girls without your kelp. 5 \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER, 117 \
\
\
Two 11ding from Shipton to Burford, and \uc0\u383 ee- \
ing a miller riding \uc0\u383 oftly before them on his \u383 acks, \
were re\uc0\u383 olved to abu\u383 e him; \u383 o they went one on \
each \uc0\u383 ide, \u383 aying, Miller, come tell us which art \
thou, more knave or fool? Truly, \uc0\u383 aid he, I don't \
know which J am mo\uc0\u383 t, but I believe I am between \
both. | \
\
A FELLOW walking in the \uc0\u383 treet in a winter- \
night, and \uc0\u383 eeing a hand\u383 ome lantern hung out \
\
\
with a candle in it, thought to \uc0\u383 ecure it for him- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 elf; but having climbed up, and going to take it, \
one of the \uc0\u383 ervants \u383 eeing him, asked him what he \
meddled with the lantern for? I crave mercy, \uc0\u383 ays \
he; I was going to inuff the candle, that I might \
\uc0\u383 ee to go along. \
\
OE came to vi\uc0\u383 it a gentleman in the country, \
and finding him eating of cherries with his \uc0\u383 peCta- \
cles on, having asked him his rea\uc0\u383 on for it; he an- \
\uc0\u383 wered, The truth is, I bid my man bring me Ken- \
ti\uc0\u383 h cherries, and the knave has brought me the\u383 e \
little ones, which you \uc0\u383 ee; therefore I eat them \
with my \uc0\u383 pectacles on to make 2 look big- \
ger. | | \
Ox faid, players are idle fellows: Says ang- \
ther, You are mi\uc0\u383 taken, for their whole life is no- \
thing but action. | \
\
 ALoxso efArragon u\uc0\u383 ed to fay in commendati- \
on of age, that age appeared beft in four things \
old wood to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to \
\
\
meet; and old authors to read. \
\
\
A DRrIveR chanc'd to overturn his cart far from \
any a\uc0\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance, and was forced to \u383 tand by till he \
could find fomebody coming that way to help him; \
at length a par\uc0\u383 on came, and thinking to put a \
joke upon the poor carter, \uc0\u383 aid, How now, carter, \
\
\
\
What! I \uc0\u383 ee you have killed the devil: Yes, i'faith, \
ma\uc0\u383 ter, quoth he, and I have waited two hours for \
\
\
a par\uc0\u383 on to bury him, and now you are come very \
\
\
Tea\uc0\u383 onably. \
\
A w1TTY knave bargained for a \uc0\u383 eller of lace \
in London for \uc0\u383 o much fine lace as would reach \
from one of his cars to the other. When they \
had agreed, he told her that he believed \uc0\u383 he had \
Not quite enough to perform the covenant, for \
one of his cars was nailed to the pillory at Bri\uc0\u383 tol. \
\
An Oxford \uc0\u383 cholar being at Cambridge ten days \
together, they kept him drinking all night, \uc0\u383 o that \
he could never ri\uc0\u383 e before dinner; being a\u383 ked how \
he liked the place, he \uc0\u383 aid, well enough, but that \
there is no forenoon in it. \
\
\
"Mx. John Ogle, a private gentleman of the fir\uc0\u383 t \
\
\
troop of hor\uc0\u383 e-guards, who\u383 e \u383 i\u383 ter was mi\u383 tre\u383 s to \
the duke of York, being very extravagant and \
fpending all his pay, u\uc0\u383 ed to make his \u383 i\u383 ter \u383 up- \
ply him with money: but one time entering her \
chamber, when the duke was a\uc0\u383 lecp in bed with \
her, \uc0\u383 he hearing him, immediately drew the cur- \
\
\
tain, and lifted up her hand, that he might not di- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 turb the duk\u281 , and he \u383 hould have his demands : \
\
\
he \uc0\u383 eemed to be \u383 atisfied therewith; Hut when the \
\
\
curtzin was drawn, Jack takes away the duke's \
cloaths, with his \uc0\u383 tar and garter, laced breeches, \
gold watch, and money; and went clearly off, \
\
\
without any body \uc0\u383 eeing him. When the duke \
\
\
woke he was in a great pailion on not \uc0\u383 inding his \
. cloaths; and examiningamong his \uc0\u383 ervants who had \
been in his chamber, they an\uc0\u383 wered, None but: \
| Mr. Ogle. Oh! quoth the duke, Iadam, you \
\
\
know who it is has been the thief. About a weck \
after, the duke and \uc0\u383 everal of the nobility were \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 119 \
walking in the park: Ogle immediately \uc0\u383 teps up to \
the duke, and begins to \uc0\u383 trip, faying, Here, take \
your cloaths again, I have better of my own at \
home, The duke \uc0\u383 eeing him begin to \u383 trip, and fcar- \
ing the nobles \uc0\u383 hould be acquainted in what man- \
ner he lo\uc0\u383 t his cloaths, \u383 aid, Pi\u383 h, fie, Mr. Ogle, \
do not \uc0\u383 tiip, you are welcome to them. So they \
parted good friends, and Ogle went off with great \
\uc0\u383 atisfaction. \
\
AxOTHER time Ogle wanted a pair of boots \
to mount guard in, goes into a \uc0\u383 hoemaker's \u383 hop, \
and asked for a pair of boots, which were brought \
him. They fitting him, he walked up and down \
the \uc0\u383 hop, to \u383 ettle them to his feet; but \u383 pying an \
opportunity, he ran out of the \uc0\u383 hop, and the \u383 hoe- \
maker followed him, crying, Stop thief! \uc0\u383 top thief \
Ogle \uc0\u383 aid, No, gentlemen, it is a wager: I am to \
run in boots, and he in \uc0\u383 hoes and \u383 tockings. 'Then, \
\uc0\u383 aid the mob, Well run, boots, for \u383 hoes and \u383 toc- \
kings will never overtake thee. \
\
THzrRE being a general mu\uc0\u383 ter of the life- guards \
in Hyde-park, and Ogle having loft his cloak at \
play, was therefore obliged to borrow his landla- \
dy's \uc0\u383 carlet petticoat; fo tying it up in a bundle, \
put it behind him, then mounted \uc0\u383 a\u383 e enough, as \
be thought, and away he went; but one of the \
rank perceiving the border, immediately gave the \
duke notice, and fell back into the rank again. \
The duke \uc0\u383 miling to him\u383 elf, faid, Gentlemen, \
cloak all; which they all did except Ogle,\'94 Who, \
\uc0\u383 tammering and \u383 ta;cing, faid, Cloak all, What a \
pox mu\uc0\u383 t we cloak for: It don't rain. But he not \
cloaking, the duke \uc0\u383 aid, Mr. Ogle, why, do not you \
obey the word of command? Cloak, Sir! faid \
Ogle: what, there then; and peeping his head out \
\
\
at the top of the petticcat, Though I cannot cloak, \
I can petticoat with the be\uc0\u383 t of you. | \
ANOTHER time, Mr. Ogle being at Lockhart's \
ordinary, where he was playing at hazard with a \
great many lords, he had very good luck at gaming \
among them; therefore he ordered a porter to go \
up and down the \uc0\u383 treets, and to bring him as many \
poor people as he could get, who in a little time \
brought in upwards of a hundred beggars. Where. \
upon Ogle ordered them a \uc0\u383 hilling apiece in meat \
and drink. By that time they had made an end \
of their allowance, Mr. Ogle had broke all the per- \
\uc0\u383 ons of quality, di\u383 charging the mumpers! reckon. \
ing, and giving them fixpence apiece be\uc0\u383 ides. As \
he was going into Spring-garden, he met the duke \
of Monmouth, who asked Ogle where he had been ? \
Been! quoth he, why I have been fulfilling the \
\uc0\u383 cripture. | \
nothing of the matter. No matter for that, \uc0\u383 aid \
Ogle, but J have filled the hungry with good things, \
and the rich 1 have \uc0\u383 ent empty away. \
\
\
A coUuNTRY MAN coming to London, went in- \
\
\
to a book\uc0\u383 eller's \u383 hop to buy a bible; the man \u383 hew- \
ed him one that had a patch in the cover; the \
countryman was di\uc0\u383 plea\u383 ed at that, and would \u383 ee \
more; whereat the ma\uc0\u383 ter ,.came out, asking his \
\uc0\u383 ervant what the man would have? Sir, \u383 ays. the \
boy, he wants a bible, and he does not like this. \
\
\
Then the m:\uc0\u383 ter looking on it, Why, \u383 itrah, \u383 aid \
\
\
he to his apprentice, I have but one double cover- \
\
| ed bible in the \uc0\u383 hop, and you mu\u383 t \u383 hew every one \
this? O, pray, \uc0\u383 aid the countryman, let me have \
it by all means, if it be double covered, for I would \
fain have a la\uc0\u383 ting one; and \u383 o paid the price down \
mo\uc0\u383 t willingly. \'ab \
\
\
Quoth the duke, I believe you know \
\
\
\
A LaprY belonging to a wealthy pari\uc0\u383 h in Lon- \
don, having had the misfortune to bury \uc0\u383 everal of \
her family in a little time, the \uc0\u383 exton brought her \
a bill; which \uc0\u383 he thinking unrea\u383 onable, demand- \
ed \uc0\u383 ome abatement, and tendered him five \u383 hillings \
le\uc0\u383 s than he had charged. The \u383 exton eyed the \
money, and at length took it up, \uc0\u383 aying, As you \
have been a good chap, Madam, and I expect more \
of your cu\uc0\u383 tom, I'll take it for this time, but I real- \
ly cannot afford it. | \
\
A CLERGY MAN, who had led a very difolute \
life about town for many years, at la\uc0\u383 t made inte- \
re\uc0\u383 t to go chaplain to a gentleman who was going \
abroad in a public character; the envoy told him, \
he had been thoroughly informed of his vicious \
cour\uc0\u383 es, yet that \u383 hould be no ob\u383 tacle to his pre- \
ferment was he not \uc0\u383 till wanting of one vice more. \
The par\uc0\u383 on amazed at a complaint of his deficien- \
cy in wickedne\uc0\u383 s, impatiently defired to be inform\'bb \
ed in what he had failed; the envoy replied, Hy- \
pocri\uc0\u383 y to cover all the re\u383 t. \
\
A Lady was \uc0\u383 aying, \u383 he had overthrown her \
adver\uc0\u383 ary; at which one of her \u383 ervants \u383 aid, Ay, \
he took the wrong \uc0\u383 ow by the ear when he med- \
ded with her lady\uc0\u383 hip. \
\
A cLowN1isH gentleman, who had courted a \
young lady; the marriage being agreed upon, he \
e\uc0\u383 pied a pretty mare a grazing which he would \
bave into the bargain: The gentleman being un- \
willing to part with his mare, the match broke off, \
A twelvemonth after, the formal wozer meets the \
lady at a fair, and would fain have renewed his old \
acquaintance but \uc0\u383 he pretending ignorance at fir\u383 t \
kid, \uc0\u383 he did not know him! No, \u383 aid he, do not \
\
tou know me! Why, I was once a \uc0\u383 uitor to you. \
| F \
\
\
T-cry your mercy, Sir, \uc0\u383 aid the, now I remember \
you; you came a wooing o my father's mare, and \
\
\
\uc0\u383 he is not married yet. \
\
KIN c James keeping his court at Theobald's, \
in a time of contagion, divers con\uc0\u383 tables, with their \
watchmen; were \uc0\u383 et at \u383 everal places, to hinder the \
\
\
concour\uc0\u383 e: of people from flocking thither without \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ome nece\u383 \u383 ary occa\u383 ion; among\u383 t others, one gen- \
tleman (being fomewhat in the garb of a \uc0\u383 erving \
\
\
man) was examined what lord he belonged unto? \
\
\
To which he readily replied, To the Lord Jeho- \
vah: which word being beyond the con\uc0\u383 table's un. \
der\uc0\u383 tanding, he a\u383 ked his watchmen, if they knew \
any \uc0\u383 uch lord? They replied, No. However, the \
con\uc0\u383 table being unwilling to give di\u383 ta\u383 te, \u383 aid, \
Well, let him pa\uc0\u383 s, notwith\u383 tanding, I believe it i \
feme Scotch lord ar other. \
\
Sou thieves met a man, robbed him, and \
bound him in a wood; alittle a\uc0\u383 ter, they met with \
another, bound him al\uc0\u383 o, and laid him on the o- \
ther fide of the hedge; then one of them cried \
out, faying, I am undone, Lam undone! the other \
hearing him \uc0\u383 ay \u383 o, prayed him, that he would \
come and undo him too. \
\
SEVERAL French courtiers coming over a bridge \
\
\
at Paris, they \uc0\u383 aw a blind man begging, who\u383 e eye- \
\
\
balls appeared fo fair, that many people adjudged \
him to be a counterfeit; a nobleman's ba\uc0\u383 tard go- \
ing by, \uc0\u383 aid he would try the experiment; lor, \
\
\
tays he, if he can fee, I am \uc0\u383 ure he knows me, by \
\
\
rea\uc0\u383 on I pa\u383 s tliis way \u383 o often: \u383 o he goes to the \
beggar, and pulls him by the no\uc0\u383 e. Says the beg- \
gar, roaring out, You ba\uc0\u383 tardly rogue, what is that \
for? Look ye there, fays the ba\uc0\u383 tard, how \u383 hou!d \
be bave known me if he had dot countered? \
\
\
\
Ox having a kin\uc0\u383 woman come out of the \
\
\
country, that was never at London before, invit- \
\
\
ed her abroad, and having \uc0\u383 hewed her the tombs \
at We\uc0\u383 tmin\u383 ter, came with her to the king's cha- \
pel, where the organs were playing; and entering \
in, he took her by the hand to lead her to a con- \
venient \uc0\u383 eat; but \u383 he held back, \u383 aying, Indeed; \
\
\
. cou\uc0\u383 in, you mu\u383 t excu\u383 e me, I cannot dance. \
\
\
A WOMAN, who had been married but tnree \
days, called her husband cuckold; fays her mother, \
Hou\uc0\u383 ewife, you are a drab, to begin to call your \
husband cuckold already; for I have been married \
at lea\uc0\u383 t thirty years to your father, and dur\u383 t never \
tell him of it yet. | \
\
A FELLOW that u\uc0\u383 ed to be drunk, when he \
came home, wallowed about the floor, and \uc0\u383 aid, He \
paid rent for the hou\uc0\u383 e, and he would ly where he \
plea\uc0\u383 ed. At laft he falls into the fire; and the \
maid runs to her Mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s, and told her, \u383 he could \
not get him out: Let him alone, \uc0\u383 ays \u383 he, be pays \
rent for the hou\uc0\u383 e, let him ly where he plea\u383 es. \
\
A woMan burying her fifth hu\uc0\u383 band, a man \
was counting with his fingers how many \uc0\u383 he had \
had, and he \uc0\u383 aid, the made a hand of them all. \
\
A YOUNG par\uc0\u383 on lo\u383 t his way in a fore\u383 t, and it \
being very cold and rainy, he happened upon a poor \
cottage, and de\uc0\u383 ired any lodging or hay-lo\u383 t to ly in, \
and \uc0\u383 ome \u383 ire to dry him; the man told him, he \
and his wife had but one bed, and if he plea\uc0\u383 ed to \
lie with them, he \uc0\u383 hould be welcome. The par- \
\
\
fon thanked him, and kindly accepted of it. In the \
\
morning, the man ro\uc0\u383 e to go to market, and meet- \
\
ing with \uc0\u383 ome of his neighbours, he fell a laugh- \
\
ing. They asked him what made him \uc0\u383 o merry \
\
about the mouth? Why, \uc0\u383 ays he, I cannot but \
\
\
think how \uc0\u383 hamed the par\u383 on will be when he a- \
wakes to find him\uc0\u383 elf in bed with my wife. \
\
AN old gentleman being fick of an impo\uc0\u383 thume, \
and the \uc0\u383 ervants fearing his death, took what they \
could and went away; an old ape \uc0\u383 ceing what the \
ref did, found an old hat of his ma\uc0\u383 ter's, and \u383 eein 8 \
the re\uc0\u383 t of his \u383 ervants bid him adieu, he put his \
hat off, and bowed to him; at which the gentle- \
man laughed \uc0\u383 o heartily, that his a ee broke, \
and he recovered. \
\
\
Hzxxx the fourth of France, being given to \
\
\
the love of other women, be\uc0\u383 ides his queen, was \
\{\uc0\u383 harply reproved by a rich abbot his confe\u383 \u383 or; \
which the king \uc0\u383 eemed to take very well, and in- \
vited him that day to dine with him, where the \
abbot fed very heartily upon a di\uc0\u383 h of roa\u383 ted par- \
tridges; which the king ob\uc0\u383 erving, a\u383 ked him, why \
he did not ear of \uc0\u383 ome other di\u383 hes whick he thought \
better? The abbot told the king, nothing could be \
better to him than roa\uc0\u383 ted partridges, for it was \
his beloved di\uc0\u383 h above all others. The next day \
the king cau\uc0\u383 ed the abbot to be arre\u383 ted for high- \
trea\uc0\u383 on, and committed clo\u383 e pri\u383 oner to the Ba- \
\uc0\u383 tile, with a \u383 trict command to the keeper to let him \
have no meat but partridges; which at fir\uc0\u383 t plea\u383 ed \
the abbot, but having been fed with nothing but \
that diet for a week together, he began to nau\uc0\u383 e- \
\
\
ate it. At eight days end, the king \uc0\u383 ent for him, \
under the pretence of examining him; and having \
\
\
urged him to a confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion of the trea\u383 on he charg- \
ed him with, the abbot pleaded his innocence, and \
confe\uc0\u383 \u383 ed nothing: Well, \u383 aid the king, \u383 ince you \
are \uc0\u383 o ob\u383 tinate, you mu\u383 t even go to pri\u383 on again: \
to which the abbot replied, I be\uc0\u383 eech your maje\u383 ty, \
if I mult flill be confined, that I may be ordered \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ome other diet. Why, what diet have you? \u383 aid \
the king. Nothing, \uc0\u383 aid the abbot; but partridges. \
Why, faid the king, you told me that was the diet \
you loved above any thing in the world. Tis true, \
I do, \uc0\u383 ays the abbot; but to be always fed with \
partridges, that makes me loath it, and defire o- \
ther diet, Very well, replied the king, Tis ju\uc0\u383 t \
\uc0\u383 o with me, my lord, I love my queen above -all \
women in the world; but, my lord, always the \
queen, always the queen, this is too tire\uc0\u383 ome, and \
\
\
makes me \uc0\u383 ometimes de\u383 ire change of diet as well \
as you do: and \uc0\u383 o laughing at the abbot, \u383 et him a- \
\
\
gain at liberty. \
\
\
A PHYSICIAN, boa\uc0\u383 ting his great knowledge in \
\
\
the profe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, \u383 aid, he never heard any complaint \
from his patients; a by-\uc0\u383 tander wittily replied, Ve- \
ry likely, doctor, for the faults of the phy\uc0\u383 icians \
2re generally buried with their patients. \
\
THE French king having a lady in bis private \
apartment, commanded that no one \uc0\u383 hould enter \
till his maje\uc0\u383 ty gave orders for his being \u383 een. An \
officer happening to come at that time with an ex- \
pre\uc0\u383 s, was very importunate to be admitted; but \
being denied, was obliged to wait till a lady in \
green had come out of the king's clo\uc0\u383 et, foon zfter \
which he was introduced; and inquiring of his \
maje\uc0\u383 ty's welfare, the king teld him. he had been \
\uc0\u383 omewhat indi\u383 pc\u383 ed, but was then perfectly reco- \
vered. The officer replied, I believe your maje- \
BY was troubled with the green-fickne\uc0\u383 s, \u383 or I faw \
it go out at the door. \
\
Tas reported of one cf the A to the \uc0\u383 a- \
mous Montro\uc0\u383 e, that being condemned in Scotland \
\
\
to die for attending his ma\uc0\u383 ter in \u383 ome of his glo- \
\
\
rious exploits; and being upon the ladder, and or\
dered to \uc0\u383 et out a p\u383 alm, expecting a reprieve, he \
named the 119th p\uc0\u383 alm (with which the officers. \
attending the execution complied, the Scots pre\uc0\u383 - \
byterians being great p\uc0\u383 alm- \u383 ingers); and it was \
well for him he did \uc0\u383 o; for they had \u383 ung it three \
parts through, before the reprieve came; any other \
plalm would have hanged him. \
\
\
A MINISTER who was travelling in the weft of \
\
\
England, happened to \uc0\u383 top at a village on Sunday, \
and meeting with the church-warden, offered to \
give them a \uc0\u383 ermon: the church-warden a\u383 ked him \
if he was licen\uc0\u383 ed to preach? Yes, quoth the mi- \
ni\uc0\u383 ter; and pulled out a licence in Latin: Truly, \
fays the church - warden, I do not under\uc0\u383 tand Latin; \
but pray let me look upon your licence, for I may \
perhaps pick out a word here and there. No, good \
\
\
Sir, quoth the mini\uc0\u383 ter, I will have no words pick- \
\
\
ed out, for I will not have my licence \uc0\u383 poiled. \
An Iri\uc0\u383 h lawyer of the Temple, going to dinner, \
left the\uc0\u383 e directions in his key-hole: Gone to the \
\
\
+ Elephant and Ca\uc0\u383 tle, where you \u383 hall find me; and \
\
\
if you cannot read this, carry it to the ee 85 \
and he will read it for you. \
\
In Naples, a city in Italy, there kan in a \
great \uc0\u383 iege it endured, that the governor made a \
\uc0\u383 evere order, That every man \u383 hould be put to death, \
being above \uc0\u383 uch an age, that did not wear a \u383 word. \
Not long after, as he was riding through the \uc0\u383 treet, \
to \uc0\u383 ee how well his order was put in execution, he \
e\uc0\u383 pied a gentleman without one, and commanded \
\
\
him to be brought before him: The order was \
\
\
read, and he condemned to die the death appoint- \
ed, which was to be hanged on the next \uc0\u383 ign- po\u383 t. \
The gentleman, after he had pleaded feveral things \
in his own behalf, which availed nothing, de\uc0\u383 ired \
\
\
\
the favour that he might not die fo ignominiou\uc0\u383 ly \
\
\
but that the next gentleman that pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed, might run \
him through with his \uc0\u383 word. The reque\u383 t being \
rea\uc0\u383 onable, was granted, and the execution delay- \
ed upon tho\uc0\u383 e terms. It happened that a young \
gallant was-coming from a gaming-hou\uc0\u383 e, who hav- \
ing lo\uc0\u383 t all, even \u383 o much as the blade of his \u383 word, \
which was good merchandize at that time, did not \
dare, in regard to the \uc0\u383 evere order, to go home, \
until a wooden one was fitted to the handle. This \
gentleman was \uc0\u383 topt, and the dying man's ca\u383 e laid \
open; but this ingenious per\uc0\u383 on, knowing his own \
in\uc0\u383 ufficiency, What, \u383 aid he, mu\u383 t I be a common \
executioner? Mult I \uc0\u383 tain my hands in blood with- \
out pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, and be a reproach to all men? Burt \
this argument would not do, kill him he mu\uc0\u383 t: \
Then putting off his cloak, he began a prayer to \
this effect: Thou who \uc0\u383 ee\u383 t all our tran\u383 gre\u383 \u383 ions \
here below, judge, I pray thee, and vindicate the \
cau\uc0\u383 e of tho\u383 e that \u383 uffer wrong; in e\u383 pecial man- \
ner, grant. that if this man here ought not to die, \
this \uc0\u383 word may be turned into wood. Then draw- \
mg it forth, it appeared to be wood; and the dy- \
mg gentleman was immediately relea\uc0\u383 ed with abun- \
dance of joy. The wooden \uc0\u383 word. was carried \
with great \uc0\u383 olemnity, and hung up in the cathe- \
dral church, as a proper link to the chain of in \
miracles. \
\
AFELLOwW comically di\uc0\u383 po\u383 ed, having gotten \
2 great many horns in a ba\uc0\u383 ket, cried New furni- \
ture, Rare furniture; whereupon a grave citizen \
admiring what it. \uc0\u383 hould be, de\u383 ired to \u383 ee it; and \
thereupon \uc0\u383 aid, Why, you coxcombly fool, do you \
think any one 1s \uc0\u383 o mad as to buy \u383 uch ware? Yes, \
marry do I, replied he, for though you are furni\uc0\u383 \u383 i- \
\
ed, there are many, as wi\uc0\u383 e as your\u383 elf, that may \
have occa\uc0\u383 ion for them. \
\
A*'vERY mode\uc0\u383 t young gentleman of the coun- \
ty of Tipperary having attempted many ways in \
vain, to acquire the affeCtions of a lady of great \
fortune, at la\uc0\u383 t re\u383 olved to try what could be done \
by the help of mu\uc0\u383 ic, and therefore entertained her \
with a \uc0\u383 erenade under her window at midnight; \
but \uc0\u383 he. ordered her \u383 ervants to drive him thence, \
by throwing \uc0\u383 tones at him. Oh! my friend, fays \
one of his companions, your mu\uc0\u383 ic is as powerful \
as that of Orpheus; for it draws the very \uc0\u383 tones a- \
bout you. | | \
\
A RI1cn citizen of London, in his will left \uc0\u383 ome- \
thing con\uc0\u383 iderable to Chri\u383 t's ho\u383 pital, but little or \
nothing to one of his extravagant \uc0\u383 ons. At the fu- \
neral the blue-coat boys were ordered, in acknow- \
ledgment of \uc0\u383 o great a gi\u383 t, to \u383 ing before the corp\u383 e \
to the grave: As they marched through Cheap\uc0\u383 ide, \
this extravagant \uc0\u383 on led his mother, who ob\u383 erving \
the boys make a re\uc0\u383 t, he opened his mouth in \u383 uch \
\
\
a manner, that he was heard almo\uc0\u383 t from one end \
\
\
of the \uc0\u383 treet to the other; and \u383 till leading his mo- \
\
\
ther, he continued thus \uc0\u383 inging, 'till a kin\u383 man \
came to him, and \uc0\u383 topping his mouth, a\u383 ked him \
\
\
his rea\uc0\u383 on \u383 or his irreverend and indecent carriage. \
Why, cou\uc0\u383 in, quoth this Ne'er- be- good, the boys \
\
\
there at my father's death \uc0\u383 ing for \u383 omething, and \
\
\
won't you let me \uc0\u383 ing for nothing ? \
\
TREE young conceited wits, as they thought \
them\uc0\u383 elves, pa\u383 \u383 ing along the road near Oxford, \
met a grave old gentleman, with whom they had \
a mind to be rudely merry; Good morrow, father \
\
\
Abraham, \uc0\u383 aid one; Good - morrow, father I\u383 aac, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 aid the next: Good-morrow, father Jacob, cried \
\
\
he \uc0\u383 lept all the while; after the exerci\u383 e was done, \
\
\
Well, quoth Mr. Archdeacon, and have you here \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 129 \
\
\
the la\uc0\u383 t. I am neither Abraham, I\u383 aac, nor Ja- \
cob, cried the old gentleman, but Saul, the \uc0\u383 on of \
Ki\uc0\u383 h, who went to \u383 eek his father's a\u383 \u383 es, and lo! \
here I have found them. \
\
A cou ANx of go\uc0\u383 \u383 ips that were met to a\u383 \u383 i\u383 t \
at a woman's labour, a\uc0\u383 ter the bu\u383 ine\u383 s was over, \
fell to chatting together, over a cup of good liquor; \
it being about the middle of the night, the \uc0\u383 ubject \
of their di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e was the walking of \u383 pirits; which \
\uc0\u383 ome afirmed to have \u383 een, and others denied, or \
at lea\uc0\u383 t doubted the appearance of any. At la\u383 t, \
the midwife (who\uc0\u383 e appearance bore a great \u383 way \
with the re\uc0\u383 t of the company) delivered her opini- \
on thus: For my part, I have gone up and down \
all hours of the night, and yet, heaven be prai\uc0\u383 ed, \
I never \uc0\u383 aw any thing wor\u383 e than my\u383 elf, though o\'93 \
my con\uc0\u383 cience, I thought I \u383 aw-the devil once. \
\
A TUTOR bid his pupit eome to \uc0\u383 chool, but \
\
\
home comes the tutor, and finding him afleep, a\uc0\u383 k- \
ed, Why he did not come to the di\uc0\u383 putation? Tru- \
ly, Sir, \uc0\u383 ays he, I never dreamt on it. \
\
A. CLERGY MAN in the north, who had a large \
family, and but a very \uc0\u383 mall living, betock him- \
\uc0\u383 elf to fi\u383 hing for their \u383 upport. It happened once, \
that the archdeacon, on his vifitation, pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed by the \
very river where the vicar was fi\uc0\u383 hing; and \u383 eeing \
him dre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed in black, a\u383 ked him if-he was the cler- \
gyman of the pari\uc0\u383 h ? Yes, Sir, an\u383 wers the vicar. \
\
\
many \uc0\u383 ouls ? No, \u383 ays the vicar (intent on his fi\u383 h- \
ing) very few, but we have floundets, gudgeons, \
and chubs. \
MR. Prior, when he was amba\uc0\u383 \u383 ador in France, \
being at the opera in Paris, and \uc0\u383 cated in a bor \
\
\
with a nobleman belonging to the court, as \uc0\u383 oon \
as one of the principal performers came upon the \
\uc0\u383 tage, and began to \u383 ing, the nobleman, as the cu- \
\uc0\u383 tom is in France, joined in the favourite air, and \
in accompanyment with others, \uc0\u383 o rai\u383 ed the con- \
cert that the voice of the performer could not be \
di\uc0\u383 tinguithed. Mr. Prior, in\u383 tead of \u383 inging, as mo\u383 t \
\
\
of the company did, broke out into bitter invec- \
\
\
tives again\uc0\u383 t the Italian ra\u383 cal who impo\u383 ed upon \
the audience by pretending to \uc0\u383 ing. Sir, \u383 aid the \
\
\
marquis, who \uc0\u383 topt to make a reply, the fellow \
has a mo\uc0\u383 t excellent voice, and J am \u383 urpri\u383 ed you \
\
\
are not charmed with it. Why, really, \uc0\u383 o he has, \
replied his excellency, but it is \uc0\u383 o far below your \
\
\
Jord\uc0\u383 hip's, that while you were Aha to ings I \
\
\
could not hear a note of it. \
\
TAE late bi\uc0\u383 hop Burnet happening to dine one \
day with the then earl of Uxbridge, who was a \
nobleman of great compa\uc0\u383 s of thought, but \u383 ome- \
what of a romantic turn, and the conver\uc0\u383 ation af- \
fording a fair opportunity, ob\uc0\u383 erved, not without \
de\uc0\u383 ign, that there was in mo\u383 t men \u383 ome predomi- \
nant pa\uc0\u383 hon; as, to wine, to women, to money, \
\
\
or the like; But as for my part, adds he, my great \
\
\
inclination is to tell lies. Then, \uc0\u383 ays the earl with \
a \uc0\u383 neer, who thought him\u383 elf pointed at, your lord- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 hip is the fitte\u383 t per\u383 on in the world to write the \
\
\
hi\uc0\u383 tory of your own times. \
In 1733, Sir Simon Stuart of Hartley, in Hamp- \
\
\
\uc0\u383 hire, looking over \u383 ome old writings, found on the \
\
\
back of them a memorandum noting that 1500 \
broad pieces were buried in a certain \uc0\u383 pot in an \
adjoining field. Whereupon he took a \uc0\u383 ervant, and \
after digging a little in the place, found the trea- \
ture in a pot, hid there in the time of the civil \
\
\
wars by his grandfather Sir Nicholas Stuart, with \
this note on'the top written on parchment, Rather \
for the devil than Oliver. \
\
DR. \'84fellow of St. John's college, Ox- \
\
\
ford, was remarkable for two things, a great \uc0\u383 tock \
\
\
of wit, and a great \uc0\u383 tomach; one day after dinner \
and half an hour's facetiou\uc0\u383 ne\u383 s and gluttony, ju\u383 t \
as the cour\uc0\u383 e was going to be removed, he began \
to look with unu\uc0\u383 ual melancholy; every one about. \
him wondered at the doCtor's gloomine\uc0\u383 s, am at la\u383 t \
the pre\uc0\u383 ident of the college a\u383 ked him the rea\u383 on.\'93 Sir, \
an\uc0\u383 wered he, I am extremely out of order.\'93 Dear \
doctor, an\uc0\u383 wered the pre\u383 ident, you look well and \
ro\uc0\u383 y, your colour is fre\u383 h, and you \u383 eem not to have- \
lo\uc0\u383 t your \u383 tomach. Mr. Pre\u383 ident, replied our \
reverend trencherman, however well my looks may \
be, myca\uc0\u383 e is de\u383 perate. Iam not long to be a man of \
this world; the proof is too plain; for when J had \
my health, I never dined in this hall but before the \
la\uc0\u383 t cour\u383 e was removed my circingle fairly touch- \
ed the margin of the table; you \uc0\u383 ee, notwithitand- \
ing my be\uc0\u383 t endeavours at the venifon pa\u383 ty, I am \
now di\uc0\u383 tant full three inches; it is no toucher; F \
fall \uc0\u383 trangely away, and I am a gone man!\'94 Is \
that all the matter, cried the pre\uc0\u383 ident; courage,, \
doctor, though you have not reached at a toucher; \
for you mu\uc0\u383 t know, we have had the table moved \
\uc0\u383 ix inches farther from the bench you fit upon, and \
therefore in\uc0\u383 tead of lo\u383 ing three inches, you have \
gained three. Oho! is that the bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s? it is \
well enough then,\'94 an\uc0\u383 wered the doctor, with at \
\{mile upon his countenance; and immediately re- \
\uc0\u383 umed his gaiety, drank his two bottles, and robk- \
led home to his chamber with great chearfulne\uc0\u383 s. \
Mx, Chri\uc0\u383 topher Stephens, a tobacconi\u383 t at Read- \
F 6 \
\
\
ing, who had acquired a large fortune by his indu- \
itry, but had no children of his own to inherit it, \
\uc0\u383 ent for a nephew out of America, to \u383 ucceed him \
both in his bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s, which was very con\u383 iderable, \
and in part of his e\uc0\u383 tate; but the youth turning \
out wild, the di\uc0\u383 \u383 enting mini\u383 ter of the place, wio \
had a great a\uc0\u383 cendancy over the old gentleman, \
\
\
took occa\uc0\u383 ion one day to di\u383 cour\u383 e him concerning \
\
\
the di\uc0\u383 po\u383 al of his worldly concerns, telling him at \
the \uc0\u383 ame time, that as he could be no \u383 tranger to \
his nephew's character, it would be more prudent \
to bequeath his fortune to charitable u\uc0\u383 es than to \
be\uc0\u383 tow it on one who would \u383 quander it away in \
plea\uc0\u383 ure: and debauchery. Mr. Stephens heard him \
with great compo\uc0\u383 ure; and as he \u383 poke through \
his no\uc0\u383 e, \u383 aid, Why, Sir, what you \u383 ay may be \
very good pulpit - doctrine; but 'tis a maxim with \
me'that charity begins at home, and my nephew \
can never have more plea\uc0\u383 ure in \u383 pending my mo- \
ney than I have had in getting of it; and there- \
fore I'll never leave him a \uc0\u383 hilling le\u383 s for being \
wild; for the wilder he is he'll have the more need \
of money.\'94 The mini\uc0\u383 ter, who did not expect \
\uc0\u383 uch a return, changed the \u383 ubject; but the old \
gentleman never reli\uc0\u383 hed him afterwards, \
\
A DERVISE, as Sir John Chardin tells us, tra- \
velling through Tartary, and arriving at the city \
of Balk, went into the king's palace by mi\uc0\u383 take, 28 \
thinking it to be a public inn. Having looked a- \
bout him for \uc0\u383 ome time, he entered into a long \
gallery, where he laid down his wallet, and \uc0\u383 pread \
his carpet to repo\uc0\u383 e him\u383 elf upon it a\u383 ter the man- \
ner of the ea\uc0\u383 tern people. He had not been long \
in this po\uc0\u383 ture before he was di\u383 covered by \u383 ome cf \
\
\
the guards, who a\uc0\u383 ked him what was his bu\u383 ine\u383 s \
\
\
in that place? The dervi\uc0\u383 e told them, he intended \
to take up his night's lodging in that inn. The \
guards let him know in a very angry manner, that \
the hou\uc0\u383 e he was in was not an inn, but the king's \
palace. It happened that the king him\uc0\u383 elf pa\u383 \u383 ed \
through the gallery during the debate, and \uc0\u383 miling \
at the mi\uc0\u383 take of the dervi\u383 e, a\u383 ked him how he \
could po\uc0\u383 \u383 ibly be \u383 o dull as not to di\u383 tingui\u383 h a pa- \
lace from an inn. Sir, \uc0\u383 ays the dervi\u383 e, give me \
leave to ask your maje\uc0\u383 ty 2 que\u383 tion or two. Who \
were the per\uc0\u383 ons that lodged in this hou\u383 e when it \
was fir\uc0\u383 t built? The king replied, His ance\u383 tors. \
And who, \uc0\u383 ays the dervi\u383 e, was the la\u383 t per\u383 on that \
lodged here? The king replied, His father. And \
who is it, \uc0\u383 ays the dervi\u383 e, that lodges here at pre- \
\uc0\u383 ent? 'The king told him, That it was he him\u383 elf, \
And who, \uc0\u383 ays the dervi\u383 e, will be here after you? \
The king an\uc0\u383 wered, The young prince his \u383 on. \
Ah, Sir, faid the dervi\uc0\u383 e, a hou\u383 e that changes its \
inhabitants \uc0\u383 o often, and receives \u383 uch a perpetual \
\
\
\uc0\u383 ucce\u383 hon of gue\u383 ts, may as well be called an inn \
| as a palace. | \
y Tar late reverend Ba\uc0\u383 il Kennet was once chap- \
1 lain in a \uc0\u383 hip of war; and as his place was to me\u383 s \
with his brother officers, he found they were \uc0\u383 o \
- addicted to the impious and non\uc0\u383 en\u383 ical vice of \
y \uc0\u383 wearing, that he thought it not becoming his cha- \
8 racter to continue any longer among them, unle\uc0\u383 s \
z- he could prevail upon them to leave it off; but gan- \
Fi ceiving at the \uc0\u383 ame time that any grave remon- \
d \{irance would have but little effect, he bethought- \
n- him\uc0\u383 elf of a \u383 tratagem which might an\u383 wer his pur- \
1g po\uc0\u383 e. One of the company having entertained the \
of re\uc0\u383 t with a \u383 tory agreeable enough in it\u383 elf, but \u383 o \
\
\
48 iaterrupted anfl perplexed with damme! blood and \
\
\
wounds and \uc0\u383 uch like \u383 hocking expletives as made \
it extremely ridiculous, Mr. Kennet then began a \
\uc0\u383 tory him\u383 elf, which he made very entertaining and \
in\uc0\u383 tructive, but interlarded it with the words bottle, \
pot, and gla\uc0\u383 s, at every \u383 entence. The gentleman. \
who vos the mo\uc0\u383 t given to the filly vice, fell a. \
laughing at Mr. Kennet, with a great air of con- \
tempt. Why, \uc0\u383 aid he, G-d damme, doctor, as to \
your \uc0\u383 tory, it is well enough: but what the d\'97I \
\
\
have we to do with your d\'97\'97d bottle, pot, and \
\
\
gla\uc0\u383 s? Mr. Kennet very calmly reply'd, Sir, L find \
you can ob\uc0\u383 erve what is ridiculous in me, which \
you cannot di\uc0\u383 cover in your\u383 elf; and therefore you \
ought not to be offended at my expletives in di\uc0\u383 - \
cour\uc0\u383 e any more than your own. Oh, oh! \
\
\
d-mme, par\uc0\u383 on, I \u383 moke you; you \u383 hall not hear \
\
\
me \{\uc0\u383 wear another oath whil\u383 t I am in your com- \
pany. Nor did he. | \
LorD St. John being \uc0\u383 ome time ago in want of \
a \uc0\u383 ervant, an Iri\u383 hman offered his fervice, but be- \
ing a\uc0\u383 ked, What countryman he was? he an\u383 wer- \
ed, An Engli\uc0\u383 hman. Where was you born? \u383 aid' \
his lord\uc0\u383 hip. In Ireland, and plea\u383 e your lord\u383 hip, \
faid the man. How then can you be an Engli\uc0\u383 h- \
man? faid his lord\uc0\u383 hip. My lord, replied the man, \
fuppo\uc0\u383 ing I was born in a fable, that is no rea\u383 on \
F \uc0\u383 hould bea hor\u383 e. \
TRE earl of Roche\uc0\u383 ter, in Charles Ids time, \
\
\
was as famous for his frolicks and humour as he \
\
\
was infamous for his vices; and one day as he was \
\
\
walking in the park with \uc0\u383 ome of his gay compa- \
nions, he \uc0\u383 aw Dr. Barrow, one of the grave\u383 t di- \
vines, and the greate\uc0\u383 t mathematician of his time, \
\
\
mu\uc0\u383 ing along the Mall, in his u\u383 ual contemplative \
\
\
manner; and \uc0\u383 o he propo\u383 ed to make up to him, \
\
and have \uc0\u383 ome drollery, as he termed it. His com- \
panions were ready enough. to attend him; and \
upon meeting the doctor, lord Roche\uc0\u383 ter making \
a very low bow, with great vivacity, \uc0\u383 aid, Doctor, \
a good morning to you\'97Tam exceedingly glad to \
\uc0\u383 ee you\'97T am yours to the very centre of gra vi- \
ty. The doctor, who was not ea\uc0\u383 ily to be \u383 urpri\u383 - \
ed, perceived his drift, and with all the compo\uc0\u383 ure \
in the world, returned the lowly bow, and \uc0\u383 aid, \
My lord, I am yours to the A4ntipedes. This put \
his lord\uc0\u383 hip to a \u383 hort pau\u383 e, but as wit is \u383 eldom \
at a lo\uc0\u383 s\'97 Doctor, \u383 aid he, I am yours to the \
lowe\uc0\u383 t pit of hell. There then, replied the- \
doctor, I will leave your lordihip;\'97and \uc0\u383 o pur\u383 u- \
ed his walk. x \
\
Tux Cordeliers tell a \uc0\u383 tory of their founder St. \
Francis, that as he pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed the \u383 treet in the du\u383 k of \
tne evening, he di\uc0\u383 covered a young fellow with a. \
maid in a corner: upon which the good father, \uc0\u383 ay \
they, lifted up his hands. to heaven with a \uc0\u383 ecret \
thank\uc0\u383 giving, That there were \u383 o much chri\u383 tian \
charity left in the world. . \
\
Tux late Mr. Blunt, a Roman catholic gentle- \
man of good family and large property in Oxford- \
\uc0\u383 hire, had contracted an intimacy with Mr. Wag- \
\uc0\u383 taff, a quaker, of Henley upon Thames, who had \
two hand\uc0\u383 ome daughters: the girls were free and \
good-natured, and the father was joco\uc0\u383 e and dry. \
One time Mr. Wag\uc0\u383 taff happening to dine at the \
\uc0\u383 quire's upon a fi\u383 h day, took occa\u383 ion to talk of \
religion, and wondered that Mr. Blunt, who was \
a man of \uc0\u383 en\u383 e, \u383 hould deny him\u383 elf the plea\u383 ure \
of cating like other folks; for thou knowe\uc0\u383 t, \u383 ays \
the quaker, what the pen \uc0\u383 aith, That it is not \
\
\
what goeth into the man that defileth the man. \
\
\
\
Mr. Blunt, willing to put an end to that kind of \
\
\
di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e, as the prie\u383 t was pre\u383 ent, readily replied \
with a \uc0\u383 mile, I know, friend Wag\u383 taff, that mu\u383 t \
be a favourite doctrine of yours, becau\uc0\u383 e you taught: \
it \uc0\u383 o early to your own daughters. \
\
A RA country boy in the late war having a \
\uc0\u383 trong fancy to go to \u383 ea, entered on board a pri- \
vateer. An engagement \uc0\u383 oon: happened with a \
French \uc0\u383 hip of greater force, in which the boy de- \
fired a mu\uc0\u383 ket and ball to kill the French captain; \
for, adds he, I was always fure of a carrion crow, \
and can hit a mark as well as the gunner him\uc0\u383 elf: \
but the boy's reque\uc0\u383 t was di\u383 regarded, the privateer \
given up, and the whole crew made pri\uc0\u383 oners and \
carried into France, where the boy was daily re- \
citing the \uc0\u383 tory of his offer, always concluding, we \
hould not have been here if IJ had been heard. \
Well, \uc0\u383 ays one of the owners, if I live to get to \
England, I will have another \uc0\u383 hip, and a captain \
that \uc0\u383 hall try thee. He did \u383 o; and the fir\u383 t en- \
gagement that they were in, the boy fetch'd down \
the officers \uc0\u383 o fa\u383 t that the enemy pre\u383 ently \u383 truck. \
And now, ys the boy, for: the honour of Old \
England, I'd fight a whole French company. \
\
TRE lady Elizabeth Piercy, being heire\uc0\u383 s to the \
great Northumberland e\uc0\u383 tate, her mother was much \
\
\
concerned about providing a \uc0\u383 uitable match for herz \
\
\
accordingly \uc0\u383 he was twice married while an infant; \
fir\uc0\u383 t, to Henry Cavendi\u383 h, earl of Ogle, only for \
to the duke of Newca\uc0\u383 tle, who died an infant; \
next, to Thomas Thynne, E\uc0\u383 q; a young gentleman \
of va\uc0\u383 t e\u383 tate, who was barbarou\u383 ly n in \
Pall-Mall through the in\uc0\u383 tigation of count Coning\u383 - \
\
mack, a foreign nobleman, who had got acquaint- \
\
\
ed with this lady at the court of Hanover, while \
\
\
Yo \
\
\
\
\
\uc0\u383 he was yet undeflowered, and wanted to marry \
her: upon this accident various rumours were \
\uc0\u383 pread, and among the re\u383 t one, that it was a judg- \
ment upon Thynne, for having debauched a young \
gentlewoman of good family under colour of mar- \
rying her, and ba\uc0\u383 ely de\u383 erting her when his uncle \
died and left him 10,0001. a year. Ay, faid a \
grave divine to whom this was told, this murder \
had never happened, if Thynne had either married \
the woman he had lain with, or lain with the lady: \
he had married. \
\
Nor many years ago the then earl of Pembroke \
who in a rencounter by night in the \uc0\u383 treets of Ma- \
drid had the misfortune to kill his man, fled into \
\
\
a church porci for \uc0\u383 anctuary. Leaning again\u383 t the \
\
\
door, he was \uc0\u383 urprized to find it open, and a ghm- \
mering light in the church. He had the courage \
to advance towards the light, but was terribly \
\uc0\u383 tartled at the fight of a woman in white, who a- \
\uc0\u383 cended from a grave with a bloody knife in her \
hand. The phantom marched up to him, and a\uc0\u383 k- \
ed what he did there. He told her the truth with\'bb \
out re\uc0\u383 erve, believing that he had met a gho\u383 t. \
Upon which \uc0\u383 he \u383 poke to him in the following \
manner: Stranger, thou art in my power: I am a \
murderer as thou art. Know then, that I am a nun \
of a noble family. A ba\uc0\u383 e, perfured man undid me, \
and boa\uc0\u383 ted of it. I \u383 oon had him di\u383 patched ; but \
not content with the murder, I have bribed the \uc0\u383 ex+ \
ton to let me enter his grave, and have plucked out \
his fal\uc0\u383 e heart from his body ; and thus I u\u383 e a trai- \
\
\
tors heart. At the\uc0\u383 e words \u383 he tore it in pieces, \
\
\
and trampled it under her feet. \
Soko the fir\uc0\u383 t, who had frequently experi- \
enced the rapacity of the Dutch, was determined \
\
\
r38 DEMOCRITUS: OR, \
in one of his journeys to avoid it, by not \uc0\u383 topping \
at Helvoet\uc0\u383 luys. It was a fine \u383 ummer's day, and \
while they were employed in putting to hor\uc0\u383 es, \
and di\uc0\u383 po\u383 ing his maje\u383 ty's baggage in the coach, \
he fat down on a bench before the door of the \
principal inn, and a\uc0\u383 ked for three fre\u383 h eggs; which \
were brought him; and when his maje\uc0\u383 ty asked, \
How much mult I pay for eggs? the ho\uc0\u383 t replied, \
Two hundred florins. How! \uc0\u383 ays the king a\u383 to- \
ni\uc0\u383 hed, Eggs mu\u383 t be very \u383 carce than at Helvoet- \
\uc0\u383 luys. Pardon me, Sire, replied the \u383 harping land- \
lord, Eggs are plenty enough, but kings are \uc0\u383 carce \
in this country. His maje\uc0\u383 ty laughed at the repar- \
tee, \uc0\u383 hrugged his \u383 houlders, and an the mo- \
my to be paid him. \
\
A counTRY farmer boa\uc0\u383 ting to his neighbour \
\
\
| how \uc0\u383 ucce\u383 sful he had been in the world, having \
\
\
rai\uc0\u383 ed a confiderable fortune from a very \u383 mall be- \
ginning; Well, Jeremy, \uc0\u383 ays his neighbour, thank \
\
\
God for it. Thank God for it! replies Jeremy, yes, \
\
\
I fay, thank God! But if I had not been a devil \
of a fellow, I had never been what I am. \
\
\
A'GREA' lord, in the reign of queen Elizabeth, \
\
\
that carried a white \uc0\u383 taff in his hand, as the badge \
of his office, was \uc0\u383 poken to by her majeity, to fee \
that \uc0\u383 uch a man had \u383 uch a place conferred on him. \
\
\
Madam, replied the lord, the di\uc0\u383 po\u383 al of that place \
\
\
was given to me by your maje\uc0\u383 ty, at the time J re- \
ceived this ftaff.\'97The queen an\uc0\u383 wered, That \u383 he \
\
\
had \uc0\u383 o be\u383 towed any thing, but \u383 he fill re\u383 erved \
her\uc0\u383 elf of the quorum. Of the quorum, madam, \
\uc0\u383 aid the earl! On which the queen, incen\u383 ed, \
\
\
\uc0\u383 natched his \u383 taff out of his hand, \u383 aying, Sir, be- \
\
\
fore you obtain this again, you \uc0\u383 hall under\u383 tand, \
that I am of the quorum, quorum, quorum: and \
\
\
\
\uc0\u383 o kept his \u383 taff a few days, chen, upon his \u383 ubs. \
mNi\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, it was re\u383 tored. \
\
A skEA captain, n in company with a friend; \
went to view the king's wardrobe, wherein was a \
rich piece of arras, repre\uc0\u383 enting the portraits of \
\uc0\u383 ome eminent commanders; but mi\u383 \u383 ing his own \
picture, and entertaining a high opinion of his on \
\uc0\u383 ervices, he complained of the injury to his friend, \
profe\uc0\u383 \u383 ing that he merited a place as well as \u383 ome \
therein. Be content, quoth his friend, thou ha\uc0\u383 t \
been an old pirate, and art re\uc0\u383 erved for another \
hanging. \
\
Tho us Aquinas came to Pope Innocent the \
third, in who\uc0\u383 e pre\u383 ence they were at that time \
telling a great \uc0\u383 um of money: Thou \u383 ee\u383 t, Thomas, \
faid the pope, that the church need not \uc0\u383 ay as \u383 he \
did at her beginning, Silver and gold have I none. \
Thomas, without \uc0\u383 tudy, replied, You \u383 ay true, ho- \
ly father; nor can the church \uc0\u383 ay now, as the an- \
cient church faid to the cripple, or Es walk, and \
be whole. \
\
A HUMORovUs fellow was wont to fay, That in \
Chri\uc0\u383 tendom there were neither \u383 cholars enough; \
gentlemen enough, nor Jews enough; and when \
an\uc0\u383 wer was made, that of all the\u383 e there were too \
great a plenty: he u\uc0\u383 ed to reply, that if there were \
icholars enough, \uc0\u383 o many would not be doubly or \
trebly benefited; if gentlemen enough, \uc0\u383 o many. \
per\uc0\u383 ons would not be ranked among. the gentry ; \
and if Jews enough, \uc0\u383 o many Chri\u383 tians would not \
profe\uc0\u383 s u\u383 ury. : \
\
A PHYSICIAN of Milan, who undertook the \
cure of madne\uc0\u383 s, had a pit of water in his hou\u383 e, \
in which he dipt his patients, \uc0\u383 ome up to the knees, \
ome to the girdle, \uc0\u383 ome to the chin, as they were \
\
\
\
more or le\uc0\u383 s affected. One of them who was ncar- \
ly recovered, \uc0\u383 tood at the door, and \u383 eeing a per- \
\uc0\u383 on ride by, with a hawk on his hand, well mount- \
ed, and followed by \uc0\u383 paniels, he enquired the \
\
\
cau\uc0\u383 e of this preparation. The man told him, to \
\
\
kill certain \uc0\u383 owls. The patient then demanded, \
\
\
what might acerue from all the game he killed in \
\
\
the year: he replied, Eight or ten crowns: with \
which the patient bid him be gone; For, \uc0\u383 aid he, \
if our ma\uc0\u383 ter comes and finds thee here, he will \
put thee into the pit amongit madmen up to the \
very chin. \
\
A CERTAIN officer in the army u\uc0\u383 ed to take \
\
\
bs in his head, when he bad drank a gla\uc0\u383 s of wine \
\
\
extraordinary, to fire off, and play tricks with his \
pi\uc0\u383 tols. One night having been drinking pretty \
freely with \uc0\u383 ome friends, when he came home, he \
\
\
ordered his footman, who was an Iri\uc0\u383 hman, newly \
\
\
hired, to bring him his pi\uc0\u383 tols. Teague obeyed; \
\
\
the captain loaded them both, and having locked \
the door, he commanded his man to hold one of \
the candles at arm's length, while he \uc0\u383 nuffed it \
\
\
with-a ball. Prayers and intreaties were in vain, \
\
\
Adnd comply he mu\uc0\u383 t, and did, though trembling. \
The captain per\uc0\u383 ormed the operation at the firit at- \
tempt; then laying down his pi\uc0\u383 tols, was going to \
\
\
unlock the door; Teague catches up the pi\uc0\u383 tol, \
which remained loaded, Arrah, ma\uc0\u383 ter, \u383 ays he, but \
now you mu\uc0\u383 t take up t'other candle, and let me \
have my \uc0\u383 hoot too. The captain called him rogue \
and ra\uc0\u383 cal, but to no purpo\u383 e: "Teague was how \
ve\uc0\u383 ted with power, and would be-obliged. Accord- \
\
\
ingly his ma\uc0\u383 ter extended the candle; but this be- \
\
\
ing the fir\uc0\u383 t time of performing this new fa\u383 hion, \
and Engli\uc0\u383 h. method of candle-\u383 nufhng, he not only \
\
\
mi\uc0\u383 \u383 ed the candle, but \u383 hot off a button from the \
brea\uc0\u383 t of the captain's coat; which narrow e\u383 cape \
had \uc0\u383 o good an effect, that it cured him of this \
humour of turning mark\uc0\u383 man in his cups. \
\
Tk emperors of China elect their wives from \
among their own \uc0\u383 ubjects, and if they are accom- \
pli\uc0\u383 hed in beauty and virtue, regard not their \u383 tate \
and condition, in\uc0\u383 omuch that the empre\u383 \u383 es are, \
for the mo\uc0\u383 t part, the daughters of artizans. \
\
ON E of the\uc0\u383 e was the daughter of a ma\u383 on, and \
when ihe was queen, ever kept by her an iron \
trowel. \
\
WHEN the prince, her \uc0\u383 on, behaved him\u383 elf \
\
\
| baughtily, \uc0\u383 he \u383 hewed him that in\u383 trument, with \
\
\
which his grandfather u\uc0\u383 ed to lay \u383 tones for his liv- \
ing, and by that means reduced him to better be- \
haviour. \
\
KING Herod after his enquiry about the time \
of the birth of the new king of the Jews, which \
the wi\uc0\u383 e- men of his nation \u383 aid was then born, in- \
humanly cau\uc0\u383 ed a great number of innocents to be \
\uc0\u383 lain: Augu\u383 tus C\'e6\u383 ar, being certified of thjs at \
Rome, \uc0\u383 aid, It was better to be Herod's pig than \
his \uc0\u383 on; in allu\u383 ion to the cu\u383 tom of the Jews, \
who kill no hogs, as not being permitted to eat \
\uc0\u383 wine's fle\u383 h. \
\
MALcoLM, king of Scotland, having laid \uc0\u383 iege \
to Alnwick-Ca\uc0\u383 tle, which being unable to re\u383 i\u383 t \
him, mu\uc0\u383 t have inevitably fallen into his hands, \
as no relief could be expected; whereupon a young \
Engli\uc0\u383 hman, without any other arms than a \u383 light \
\uc0\u383 pear in his hand, at the end whereof hung the \
keys of the ca\uc0\u383 tle, rode into the enemies camp, \
and approaching near the king, \uc0\u383 tooping the lance, \
as if be intended io pre\uc0\u383 ent him with the keys of \
\
\
the garri\uc0\u383 on, but at the \u383 ame time made \u383 uch a \
home, thru\uc0\u383 t at the king, that piercing him into \
his brain, through one of his eyes, he fell down \
dead, and the bold undertaker- etcaped by the \uc0\u383 witt- \
ne\uc0\u383 s of his hor\u383 e. \
\
FROM this de\uc0\u383 perate ih, he took upon him- \
\uc0\u383 elf the name of Percie, or Pierce- eye. And from \
Him de\uc0\u383 cended the antient earls of Northumber- \
land. \
\
A CERTAIN lady's footman, having \uc0\u383 craped to- \
gether as much money as would purcha\uc0\u383 e a lottery \
ticket, had his head filled with the thoughts of the \
ten thou\uc0\u383 and pounds; having given a linen wai\u383 t- \
coat to the maid to be wa\uc0\u383 hed, \u383 ne ound in one e of \
the pockets the following note. \
\
\'ab As \uc0\u383 oon as Ihave got the ten thou\u383 and pounds, \
Tl marry Grace Towers; but as the has been cro\uc0\u383 s \
and coy, I'll u\uc0\u383 e her as a \u383 ervant. Every morning \
\uc0\u383 he \u383 hall get me a pot of \u383 trong beer, with a toa\u383 t, \
nutmeg, and fugar. Then I'll \uc0\u383 leep again till ten. \
Then Fl have a large \uc0\u383 ack po\u383 \u383 et. My dinner \u383 hall \
be upon the table by one, and a good pudding. I'll \
have a \uc0\u383 tock of wine and brandy laid in. In the af- \
ternoon, about five, III have tarts and jellies, and \
a gallon bowl of punch. At ten an hot \uc0\u383 upper of \
two di\uc0\u383 hes, If I am in humour, Grace \u383 hall fir \
gown. Go to bed at twelve.\'94 \
\
Bor alas, at the drawing, poor Robin's ticket \
came up a blank, and \uc0\u383 poiled all his fine \u383 cheme of \
\uc0\u383 uture life. \
\
AN a\uc0\u383 trologer predicted the death of king Hen- \
ry the \uc0\u383 eventh \u383 uch a year. The king \u383 ent for him, \
\
\
and a\uc0\u383 ked, If he could tell fortunes? He replied in \
\
\
the affirmative. The king then a\uc0\u383 ked, If he did \
not \uc0\u383 cre\u383 ee \u383 ome immitent danger, that much about \
\
\
\
\
that time \uc0\u383 hould hang over his own head? he re- \
plied in the negative. \
\
THEN, \uc0\u383 aid the king, Thou art a fooli\u383 h hgure- \
ca\uc0\u383 ter; and I am mere skilful than thouz for as \
\uc0\u383 oon as I \u383 aw thee, I in\u383 tantly prophe\u383 ied, that thou \
\{houlde\uc0\u383 t be in pri\u383 on before night, which thou \
\uc0\u383 halt find true. He was immediately \u383 ent thither. \
le had not been long in cu\uc0\u383 tody when the \
king \uc0\u383 ent for him again to know, if by ca\u383 ting a \
figure, he could a\uc0\u383 certain the time of his di\u383 mi\u383 \u383 i- \
on,\'97\'97He an\uc0\u383 wered in the negative. Then \
faid the king, Thou art an illiterate fellow, that \
can\uc0\u383 t not foretell good or bad, that \u383 hall befall thy- \
\uc0\u383 elf: therefore I conclude thou can\u383 t not tell mine; \
and then \uc0\u383 et him at liberty. \
\
A ScorTs proclamation for holding of a fair \
O yes! and that's ae time; Oyes! and that's twa \
times; O yes! and that's thierd, and laft time. \
All manner of pear\uc0\u383 on or pear\u383 ons, who\u383 oever let \
'em draw near, and I \uc0\u383 hall let them kenn, that \
there is a fair to be held at the muckle town. of \
Langholm, for the \uc0\u383 pace of aught days, whein if \
any hu\uc0\u383 trin, cu\u383 trin, land-lgpper, dub-skouper, or \
gang the gate \uc0\u383 winger, \u383 hall bread any dirdam, \
durdam, rabblement, brabblement, or \uc0\u383 quabble- \
ment, he \uc0\u383 hall have his lugs tacked to the muckle \
trone with a nail of twal a penny, until he dawn \
on his hob\uc0\u383 hanks, and up with his muckle doaps; \
and pray to hea'n neen times. God ble\uc0\u383 s the \
King, and thrice the muckle laird of Relton, pay- \
ing a groat to me, Jemmy Fergu\uc0\u383 on, bailey of the \
- 90 you have heard my \
proclamation, and I'll gang haam to my dinner. \
\
Tas pope; to congratulate Charles cardinal of \
Loriazn for his great zeal again\uc0\u383 t the Lutherans, \
\
\
\
244 DEMOCRITUS: OR, \
\uc0\u383 ent him his letter of thanks, and withal the pie- \
\
\
ture of the virgin, with our Saviour in her. arms, \
\
\
being the ma\uc0\u383 ter-piece of that great arti\u383 t Michael \
Angelo. \
\
Tre me\uc0\u383 \u383 enger in his journey fell \u383 ick; and \
meeting with a merchant at Lucca, who pretend- \
cd a connection with the cardinal, delivered the \
pope's letter and pre\uc0\u383 ent to him, in order to con- \
vey them to the cardinal. This merchant con- \
ceived an implacable aver\uc0\u383 ion to the cardinal, for \
divers injuries he had done him; and therefore \
determined to embrace this opportunity of res \
venge. \
\
BEING arrived at Paris, he procured a limner to \
draw a picture of equal \uc0\u383 ize, in which, in\u383 tead of \
the virgin Mary, were drawn at full length, the \
cardinal, the queen, his niece, the queen's mother, \
and the duke of Gui\uc0\u383 e, all \u383 tark naked, with their \
arms about his neck, and their legs twi\uc0\u383 ted with \
his. his being put up together with the pa- \
per letters, was delivered to one of the cardinal's \
\uc0\u383 ecretaries, while he was with the king in council. \
\
Ar his return, the cardinal (having read the \
\
\
letter) deferred the opening of the ca\uc0\u383 e till next . \
\
\
day; where having invited many nobles and ladies, \
\
\
he found him\uc0\u383 elf mi\u383 erably di\u383 appointed, and was \
\
\
exceedingly confounded and a\uc0\u383 hamed. \
\
A consTABLE carrid a big-bellied wench be\'97 \
fore a ju\uc0\u383 tice, end \u383 aid, An't plea\u383 e your wor\u383 hip, I \
have brought you a maid with child. The wench \
called him fool and knave: \uc0\u383 he being reproved, \u383 aid, \
He mu\uc0\u383 t needs be one of them; for, \u383 aid \u383 he, if I am \
a maid, he is a fool to think I am with child; and if \
\
\
Jam not with child, he is a knave for \uc0\u383 aying \'de am. \
\
\
1 thick, I'm thin, I'm \uc0\u383 hort and long, \
And lov'd alike by old and young: \
\
I make di\uc0\u383 ea\u383 es, and I heal, \
\
And know what I \uc0\u383 hail ne'er reveal. \
\
\
The faire\uc0\u383 t virgin, fraught with pride, \
\
\
No beauty from my view can hide. \
I rack the mi\uc0\u383 er, cure the \u383 ot, \
And make, and oft' detect a plot; \
No lover, that would happy be, \
De\uc0\u383 ires his mi\u383 tre\u383 s more than me: \
Yet tho' a thou\uc0\u383 and charms I have, \
Next \uc0\u383 tep from me is to the grave. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Bed, \
\
\
Y birth is mean, my bulk is \uc0\u383 mall, \
Yet by my pow'r high buildings fall. \
I \uc0\u383 peak loud, yet want a tongue; \
Not Samp\uc0\u383 on's arm was half fo \u383 trong; \
Like him, no gates my progre\uc0\u383 s \u383 tay, \
And by my death I thou\uc0\u383 ands \u383 lay \
I \uc0\u383 eldom wound 'till I am dead, F \
And, e'er I win the field, am fled. \
No feet I have, yet \uc0\u383 wiftly run, \
And never \uc0\u383 peak till I'm undone. \
With clouds the troubled air I fill, \
\
\
And \uc0\u383 eldom touch the wretch I kill: \
\
\
Note, by my habit you would \uc0\u383 wear \
\
\
That I \uc0\u383 ome country par\u383 on were; \
\
\
s nnen ros: Ga, \
But when I take my \uc0\u383 oldier's hue, \
My colours then are red and blue. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, Gun- powder. \
\
\
N a \uc0\u383 mall cell I live that is arch'd over head, \
Not with \uc0\u383 tone, brick, or pm wood, filver \
r \
I am grateful to all, from the clown to the prince, \
Yet excepting my feeling 1 want ev'ry \uc0\u383 en\u383 e. \
Tho' \uc0\u383 ometimes in dainties and wealth J abound, \
I'm \uc0\u383 ometimes \u383 o poor that I lie on the ground \
No liquor or food in my hou\uc0\u383 e to be found. \
I travel as well by night as by day, \
And am \uc0\u383 eldom or never found out of my way. \
If you touch but my door, tho? I can't \uc0\u383 ee or hear, \
(As already I've faid) yet I know you are there. \
\
\
I ftrait make all fa\uc0\u383 t, and will open to none; \
\
\
For to open my door when with force you contrive, \
\
\
I'm turn'd out of doors, robb'd and buried alive. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, an * \
\
\
3% 1 Know a lady young and fair, \
\
\
That has a thing o'er-grown with hair, \
\
\
Wich which \uc0\u383 he takes delight in bed, \
\
\
And dearly loves to have ir fed. \
| An\uc0\u383 wer, a Lady's Lap-dcg. \
NM in ev'ry one's way, yet no Chri\uc0\u383 tian I \u383 top, \
My four horns ev' ry day \
\
\
Horizontally play, \
And my head is nail'd down at the top. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, 2 Turu\u383 tile. \
\
\
F3 EADER, it is my fate to be \
\
\
A \uc0\u383 lave to one who wears my livery, \
\
\
\
\
\
No wonder then, you hear him oft complain, \
\
\
A per\uc0\u383 on of vile character; in brief, | | \
\
A noted \uc0\u383 abbath-breaker and a thief. \{+ 4 40 \
In \uc0\u383 awey manner he has often \u383 aid, \
\
He once did entertain a crowned head. \
\
\
Whil\uc0\u383 t I'm at work the ra\u383 cal to maintain. \
\
He takes his plea\uc0\u383 ures and he lolls at ea\u383 e, \
\
But takes due care my labour \uc0\u383 hall not cea\u383 e; . \
With endle\uc0\u383 s ta\u383 ks he keeps me \u383 till employ'd, \'93 \
As if my \uc0\u383 trength could never be de\u383 troy'd. \
But con\uc0\u383 tant toil diforders inward breed, \
\
And wears my con\uc0\u383 titution out with \u383 peed ; \
My bowels (\uc0\u383 ure progno\u383 tic of decay!) \
\
With wind or water rumble night and day: \
\
My thir\uc0\u383 t is \u383 ometimes \u383 o inten\u383 e, that I \
(You'd almo\uc0\u383 t \u383 wear) would drink a river dry. \
And what is more remarkable, is this, \
\
As often as I drink, \uc0\u383 o oft I pi\u383 s. \
\
And tho' 1 make large meals, Pm never \uc0\u383 ick \
At \uc0\u383 tomach, my di\u383 charges are fo quick. \
\
Then what is my difea\uc0\u383 e, perhaps you'll query, \
A diabetes, or a lientery; \
\
Alas! too \uc0\u383 ure, *tis both in complication ; \
\
My drink runs thro? me without a!teration. \
And what I cat it does me little good, \
\
And therefore 'tis become a common rule, \
To watch me well whene'er I go to \uc0\u383 tool, \
\
\
| \
For why? My excrements are perfect food. | \
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Corn-mill. \
\
\
HAT's that in which good hou\uc0\u383 ewives \
| take delight? | \
Which, tho? it has no legs, will \uc0\u383 tand upright. \
Lis often us'd, both \uc0\u383 exes mu\u383 t agree, \
| G 2 \
\
\
248 " "DEMOCRITUS: OR, \
\
\
Beneath the navel, yet above the knee. \
\
At th' end it has a hole; tis \uc0\u383 tiff and \u383 trong, \
Thick as a maiden's wri\uc0\u383 t, and pretty long. \
To a \uc0\u383 oft place tis very oft apply'd, \
\
And make's the thing tis us'd to \uc0\u383 till more wide; \
'The women love to wriggle it to and fro, \
That what lies under may the wider grow. \
By giddy fluts \uc0\u383 ometimes at is abus'd, \
\
But by good hou\uc0\u383 ewives rubb'd before tis us'd \
That it may fitter for their purpo\uc0\u383 e be, | \
When they t9-occupy'the \uc0\u383 ame are free. \
Now tell me, merry ladies, if you can, \
\
\
What ns mu\uc0\u383 t be, that is no part of man. \
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Rolling-Pin. \
\
\
FITHOUT edge it cuts, wine nue \
| it \uc0\u383 ings; \
Foams without anger; and flies without wings. \
\
\
| An\uc0\u383 wer, Bottled Ale. \
\
\
Dany breathe, yet have no life, \
And kindle feuds, yet cau\uc0\u383 e no \u383 tri\u383 e. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Pair of Bellows. \
\
\
HEAD and body large I have, \
Stomach and bowels too, \
One winding gut of mighty length, \
Where all my food goes through, \
But what's more \uc0\u383 trange, my food I take \
In at the lower end, \
And all, ju\uc0\u383 t like a drunken es \
Cut at my raouth 1 \uc0\u383 end. \
| 49 a Pump- \
\
\
through, \
\
\
1 N ith\'94 'A gelle touch can do; | | : \
\
\
H AT force and Went e e not get \
\
\
And many in the \uc0\u383 treet would \u383 tand, \
Were 1 not as a friend at hand. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, 4 a Key: \
\
\
ITH a badge on my back, \
Of red, crange, and black, \
I travel the nation all over, \
And however abus'd \
Without violence us'd, | \
Will never my bus'neis di\uc0\u383 cover, \
I'm of \uc0\u383 ervice to \u383 tate, _ \
To the poor and the great, \
To the trade\uc0\u383 man, mechanic and beau; \
Some of whom I attend \
Every day as a friend, \
But to others bring \uc0\u383 orrow and woc. \
All kindly receive me, \
And would you beliere me, \
Scarce ever refu\uc0\u383 e me to pay; \
For whoever does this, \
Take it well or ami\uc0\u383 s, \
With him not a moment I \uc0\u383 tay. \
Y proper title J forftke, \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Letter. \
10 \
\{ And often that of others take: \
\
\
Sometimes a king in \uc0\u383 tately pride, \
\
Wich lofty maje\uc0\u383 ty J \u383 tride; \
\
Sometimes with \uc0\u383 prightly nymphs and \u383 wains \
x trip it o'er the flow'ry plains; \
\
Sometimes I fleet alo\uc0\u383 t in air, \
\
And oftentimes quite di\uc0\u383 appear ; \
\
In vericus \uc0\u383 hapes I'm known to be, \
\
\
| 8 And children often \uc0\u383 tart at me. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Shadow. \
\
\
EGS have pot, yet \uc0\u383 eldom do I wall:; \
I back bite many, yet I never talk: \
In \uc0\u383 ecret places mo\u383 t I \u383 eek to hide me, \
For he who feeds me never can abide me. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Flea. \
\
\
HE \uc0\u383 taff of life, my parent was, \
Earth was my natural bed, \
By flow degrees my \uc0\u383 trength increas'd, \
Till plenty crown'd my head. \
Of all that plenty, earthly \uc0\u383 poil'd, \
An u\uc0\u383 ele\u383 s length I lay, _ \
Till art perceiv'd my virtuous power, \
And pay'd my \uc0\u383 ortune's way. \
Now honour'd by the lovely maid, \
Thro' \uc0\u383 ylvan \u383 cenes I rove; \
With her to purling \uc0\u383 treams I \u383 tray, \
Wich her I \uc0\u383 eek the grove. \
Her beauty's bloom, *tis I pre\uc0\u383 erve, \
When grateful for her favour, \
Her temples 1 with joy \uc0\u383 urround, \
And from the \uc0\u383 un-beams \u383 ave her. \
\
\
An\uc0\u383 wer, a Straw. Hat. \
\
\
\
EPICGRA MS, RET ART RHE Ss, &c. \
\
\
The world. \
\
\
HIS world is the be\uc0\u383 t that we live in, \
\
To lend, and to fpend, and to give in; \
\
But to borrow, or beg, or get a man's own, \
It is the wor\uc0\u383 t world that ever was known. \
\
\
th WA dens \
\
To a lady of plea\uc0\u383 ure. \
\
\
Y heart is proud your chains to wear, \
But rea\uc0\u383 on will not \u383 toop; \
\
I Jove that angel's face, but fear \
The \uc0\u383 erpent in your hoop. \
\
\
That circle is a magic fpell, \
To make the wil\uc0\u383 e\u383 t fall; \
\
Its center black and deep, like Hell, \
Contains the devil and all. \
\
\
Your eyes di\uc0\u383 charge the darts of love: \
But, oh! what pains \uc0\u383 ucceed ! \
\
When darts \uc0\u383 hall pins and needles prove, \
And love a fire indeed! \
\
\
On a pack of cards. | \
\
\
ENCE, ye deluding, \uc0\u383 ubtle, painted foes; \
Back to the devil, whence ye fir\uc0\u383 t aro\u383 e: -- . \
\
A pack of you, \uc0\u383 carce worth a fingle groat, \
Have thoufands, oft e er now, reduc'd to nought! \
Women with you do pa\uc0\u383 s loo\u383 e time away; \
You, who no le\uc0\u383 s incon\u383 i\u383 tant are than they: \
Ve rob men's days of bus' ne\uc0\u383 s and delights, \
Of \uc0\u383 weet and precious lep, ye rob their nights; \
In \uc0\u383 hort, whatever game is play'd with you, \
Knaves commonly have got the mo\uc0\u383 t to do. \
\
\
The fortunate fatter. \
\
\
HE Jack and his wife once to \uc0\u383 ea took a \
\
f trip, \
\
When a \uc0\u383 udden cro\u383 s wind over\u383 et the light Bip, \
\
Hand- in- hand over deck went this couple together, \
\
Su\uc0\u383 an \u383 unk like a \u383 tone, and Jack \u383 wam like a feather; \
G 4 \
\
Thank n my \uc0\u383 tars! \u383 ays the man. (\u383 afe e\u383 cap'd from the \
\
\
flood) \
"Tis a bad wind indeed that blows nobody good. \
\
\
; The mou\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
Little mou\uc0\u383 e, as from the cat'it got; \
With fear ran up Miranda's petticoat: \
The fair half mad---* your hand up higher flip! \
\
The little devib's got upon my hip!--- \
\
\
I, \uc0\u383 wift as thought, to her a\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance flew, \
And by the tail the mou\uc0\u383 e from under drew : \
\
\
Officious fool\}---what have I gather'd thence ? \
\
\
She ne'er would bear me in her pre\uc0\u383 ence \u383 ince. \
\
\
a\'94 F- ifh for the devil. \
\
\
NE a\uc0\u383 k'd on what Ithought the devil fed \
told him L----rs were his daily bread : \
\
\
Nay, friend, quoth be, he \uc0\u383 ometimes cats a D----r \
\
\
Made into es or e =. er. \
\
\
& To a "\uc0\u383 emphtre\u383 e. \
\
\
Ht! what bo\uc0\u383 om but mu\u383 t yield, \
When, like Pallas, you advance, \
\
\
With a thimble for your \uc0\u383 hicld, \
\
\
And a needle for your lance? \
Faire\uc0\u383 t of the \u383 titching train, \
\
Ea\uc0\u383 e my pa\u383 \u383 ion by your art; \
And in pity to my pain, \
\
Mend the hole that's in my heart. \
\
\
On * 4 young lets accidentally break a gla\uc0\u383 s. \
N By her brother. \
\
\
\\ EE, fi\uc0\u383 ter, i in this \u383 hatter'd gas | \
The fate of many a pretty la\uc0\u383 s: \
\
\
ce \
\
\
ifs. \
\
\
THE, EAUGHING PHILOSOPHER, 153 \
Woman, like gla\uc0\u383 s, is frail and weak, \
Is apt to flip, is apt to break: \
Therefore, guide every \uc0\u383 tep with caution, \
For ju\uc0\u383 t like gla\u383 s is reputation \
Both broke to pieces in once falling, \
For ever lo\uc0\u383 t, and pa\u383 t recalling. \
\
\
Hard\uc0\u383 hip upon the ladies : or, the * of card:. \
By Switt. \
\
\
HAT tho',fair nymphs, your bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s is to \
play, \
\
Tis hard you mu\uc0\u383 t be bu\u383 y night and day. \
\
Why \uc0\u383 hould you want the privilege of men, \
\
Nor take \uc0\u383 ome \u383 mall diver\u383 ion now and then! \
\
Had women been the makers of our laws, \
\
(And that they were not I can fee no cau\uc0\u383 e) \
\
The men \uc0\u383 hould d rudge at cards from morn to night, \
\
And female plzo\uc0\u383 ure be to read and write. | \
\
\
On a flender collection for charity at Bath. \
\
\
O little given at the church-dgor !--- \
This people doubtle\uc0\u383 s mu\u383 t be poor! \
\
> much at gaming thrown away |: \
\
No nation, \uc0\u383 ure, \u383 o rich as they. \
\
Britons, twere greatly for your glory, \
\
Snould tho\uc0\u383 e, who thall tran\u383 mit your \u383 tory \
\
Their notions of your grandeur frame, \
\
Not as you grve----but as you game. \
\
\
The charitable fair-one: \
\
\
Elinda has fuch wond'rous charms; \
"Tis heaven to lie within her arms; \
And \uc0\u383 he's \u383 o charitably given, \
She wi\uc0\u383 hes all mankind in heaven. \
\
\
OVE is begot by fancy,. bred \
By ignorance, by expectation fed \
Deitroy'd by knowledge, and, at belt, \
Lo\uc0\u383 t in the moment 'tis po\u383 \u383 e\u383 s'd. \
\
\
iVrate by @ traveller on the winidew of a thatched \
\
\
cot. \
\
\
TAI traveller, and tho' within \
8 Nor gold, nor glitt'ring gems are \uc0\u383 een, \
Fo itrike the ravi\uc0\u383 h'd eye; \
Yet enter, and thy well-pleas'd mind \
Beneath this humble roof \uc0\u383 hall find \
What gold can never buy: \
Within this \uc0\u383 olitary cell \
Calm thought and \uc0\u383 weet contentment dwell, \
Parents of bli\uc0\u383 s \u383 incere: | \
Peace \uc0\u383 preads around her balmy wings, \
And bani\{h'd from the courts of kings, \
Has fix'd her man\uc0\u383 ions here. \
\
\
On Chee. \
\
\
Right as the day, and as the morning foir, \
Such Cloe is\'97\'97and.common as the air. \
\
\
Truth told at la\uc0\u383 t. \
\
\
AYS Colin in rage, contradicting has wi\uc0\u383 e, \
k\\ F \'a9 You never told me one truth in your life.\'94 \
Vex'd Fanny no way could his the\uc0\u383 is allow; \
\
\
You're a cuckold, \uc0\u383 ays \u383 he, do I tell you truth now? \
\
\
- Thomas's Court\uc0\u383 hip. \
\
\
Hor as in High- Dutch once diq courta wench, \
And to his co\uc0\u383 t, \u383 he an\u383 wer'd him i in French. \
\
An EPI G RAA M. \
\
\
9 18 faid, when fir\uc0\u383 t re\u383 i\u383 tle\u383 s love \
To caft his darts began, \
He turn'd his \uc0\u383 kill and power, to prove \
Great Jove into a \uc0\u383 wan. \
Experience now can fairly \uc0\u383 hew, \
That ftill the wedding noo\uc0\u383 e, \
Whether the pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ion's fal\u383 e or true, \
Oft makes a man a goo\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
IWrote by a lady in her prayer-book. \
\
\
FT on my knees at church Pve been, \
\
One pray'r my fir\uc0\u383 t and la\u383 t ;\'97 f \
\
A hu\uc0\u383 band is the thing I mean, j \
Good lord! I am in ha\uc0\u383 te, | Ea lt. = \
\
\
On a man's choice whether he would be hanged of \
married, By the Earl of Rocke\uc0\u383 ter. * \
\
\
O! here's the bride, and there's the tree, \
1 Take which of the\uc0\u383 e be\u383 t like\u383 t thee. \
The bargain's bad on either part; \
\
The woman's wor\uc0\u383 t; drive on the cart. \
Were women little as they're good, \
A pea\uc0\u383 cod would make them gown and hood. \
\
\
An EelGR AM. \
\
\
Carce had five months expir'd \uc0\u383 ince Ralph did \
k wed, | \
When lo! his fruitful wife was brought to bed, \
How now, quoth Ralph---this is too \uc0\u383 oon, my Kate? \
No, Ralph, quoth fthe---you marry'd me too late. \
\
Celia's complaint. An Epigram. \
\
\
S Celia once to Damon, did..confe\uc0\u383 s - \
\
\
Such worthle\uc0\u383 s apes \u383 hould horns for ever wear. \
To which the nymph reply\'94 d, with graceful ea\uc0\u383 e, \
Ah! Sir, I can 't---but you may if you plea\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
An epigram on bad dancers ts good mu\uc0\u383 ic. | \
\
\
N vain Apollo makes the \uc0\u383 ounding lyre, \
\
And from dead embers calls'the living fire; \
While fools, unguided by the tuneful \uc0\u383 ound, \
In aukward mea\uc0\u383 ures dance the mazy round: \
Thus Orpheus \uc0\u383 ung: and thus the bea\u383 ts obey'd, \
Mov'd in!\'93 ouch order to the tunes he play'd. \
\
\
King James coming to the hou\uc0\u383 e of Sir . Pope, Kt. \
when his lady was lately delivered of a daughter, \
avas pre\uc0\u383 ented with a paper, containing The yer \
lowing ver\uc0\u383 es : \
\
\
YEE, this little mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s here, \
Did never \uc0\u383 it in Peter's chair, \
Or a triple crown did wear, \
And yet \uc0\u383 he is a Pope . \
\
\
No benefice \uc0\u383 he ever \u383 old, \
Nor did di\uc0\u383 pen\u383 e with fins for gold; \
. She hardly is a \uc0\u383 evennight old, \
\
And yet \uc0\u383 he is a Pope\'97 \
\
\
No king her feet did ever ki\uc0\u383 s, \
Or had from her wor\uc0\u383 e look than this, \
Nor did \uc0\u383 he ever hope, \
\
And yet \uc0\u383 he is a Pope\'97 . \
\
\
Her hu\uc0\u383 band's impotence, and a\u383 \u322 'd redre\u383 s: \
Young Damon an\uc0\u383 wer'd---Cuckold him, my dear, \
\
\
A female pope, you'll \uc0\u383 ay, a \u383 econd Joan, \
No, \uc0\u383 ure, \u383 he is pope innocent or none, \
To \uc0\u383 aint one, with a rope, \
\
And yet the is a Pope. \
\
\
\
8 Philo's wife lay dead, to calm his grief, \
He to Clarinda flies, and finds relief; \
\
She too was crying on her hu\uc0\u383 band's \u383 core; \
He's dead! he's gone! alas! he is no more. \
Since they are dead, poor \uc0\u383 ouls! he, Philo, cries, \
Twill be in vain to grieve, come, dry your eyes; \
Our care is ju\uc0\u383 t the fame, away with \u383 orrow, \
One day's enough for that, we'll wed to-morrow. \
\
\
IWritten by Dr. Swift on his cun deafne\uc0\u383 s. \
\
\
EAF, giddy, helple\uc0\u383 s, left alone; \
To all my friends a burden grown; \
No more 1 hear my church's bell, \
\
Than if it rang out for my knel]: \
At thunder now no more I \uc0\u383 tart, \
'Fhan at the rumbling of a cart: \
Nay, what's incredible, alack! \
\
1 hardly hear a woman's clack. \
\
\
A real ca\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
WIT told Celia, that the fair \
In fame refembled China ware, \
Indeed! fays \uc0\u383 he---well, if we do, \
I've had this difh years twenty-two. \
To prove its \uc0\u383 trength, \u383 he took it up, \
And whil\uc0\u383 t \u383 he prais'd it, erack'd the cup. \
\
_ On, Money. An Epigram. \
\
\
Oney, tis \uc0\u383 aid, is evil's root, \
\
Yet ju\uc0\u383 tly may we doubt it; \
Can we expect good thriving fruit \
From any Rock without it? \
\
\
' The maider? ns Ae ante, By Lord Roche\uc0\u383 ter. \
\
\
NE night as I lay \uc0\u383 lumb'ring in my bed, \
\
\
Having nought with me but my maidenhead, \
\
\
Methought a gallant came, as gallants they can do \
Much with young ladies, and with old ones too: \
He woo'd, he \uc0\u383 u'd, at la\u383 t he \u383 ped; \
\
Marry'd EEE we were, and both in bed. \
\
He rous'd, turn'd up---with that I \uc0\u383 queak'd, \
Blu\uc0\u383 h'd, and cry'd Oh! and \u383 o awak' d. \
\
It would have vex'd a \uc0\u383 aint, when fle\u383 h did burn, \
To be \uc0\u383 o near, and mi\u383 s \u383 o good a turn. \
Oh! cruel dream! why did you deceive me? \
\
\
To \uc0\u383 hew me heaven, and then in hell to leave me, \
\
\
Or el\uc0\u383 e to \u383 hew me what you ne'er defign'd to \
give me. \
\
\
On. Marriage. \
\
\
7 Arriage is a country-dance, \
Where unthinking man and wife, \
\
Who at fir\uc0\u383 t have met by chance, \
S8con are partners hx'd for life. \
\
Cro\uc0\u383 \u383 ing fi\u383 t, they figuring meet, \
_ Hands with cager prcf\uc0\u383 ure take; \
Falling off, to others \uc0\u383 et; \
\
And conclude with back to back. \
\
\
. THE LAUGHING' PHILOSOPHER, I50 \
\
\
Re\uc0\u383 ignation. an excellent virtue. \
\
\
W \
\
\
Ichard o' th* green, grown old and very poor, \
\
\
For Sunday's change had but the \uc0\u383 hirt he wore. \
Wakes, fairs, or markets, or whatever came, \
\
\
He wore the linen turn'd, but \uc0\u383 till the fame. \'a9. | \
Whene'er'twas wa\uc0\u383 h'd, or when a bleaching \u383 pread, \
\
\
He \uc0\u383 tript to buff, and lay the while in bed. \
At la\uc0\u383 t, as drying in the \u383 un-\u383 hine laid, \
\
\
Some thief, that made no con\uc0\u383 cience of his trade, \
\
\
A faithle\uc0\u383 s trimbru\u383 h, who ne'er fail'd the \u383 port, \
Skulk'd lily by, and \uc0\u383 tole away the \u383 hirt. \
\
The good old wife \uc0\u383 cream'd out aloud, undone! \
\
O husband! Gaffer! O thy \uc0\u383 hirt is gone! \
\
He cries in bed---Peace, fool, is that \uc0\u383 uch news? \
\
\
Tho\uc0\u383 e that have \u383 omething, they mu\u383 t \u383 omething lo\u383 e. \
\
\
The aglifed Par\uc0\u383 on. \
\
\
Corni\uc0\u383 h vicar while he preach'd, \
Of patient Job did \uc0\u383 peak, \
Found to his grief, when he came home, \
His ca\uc0\u383 k had \u383 prung a leak. \
Enrag'd!\'97 his wife did then advi\uc0\u383 e, \
Job for a pattern chu\uc0\u383 e: \
But Job, he \uc0\u383 aid, had never \u383 uch \
A tub of ale to lo\uc0\u383 e. \
\
\
Vulcan a Bankrupt. \
\
\
92 Sledge the black\uc0\u383 mith, by his frequent \
\
\
c \'a9 | -whets; \
And \uc0\u383 pending much, contracted many debts, \
In this di\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s, he, like fome other fools, \
Pull'd down his \uc0\u383 orge, and fold off all his tocls; \
\
\
Nothing was left that would fetch any price, \
But after all was \uc0\u383 old, he kept his vice. \
\
\
on \'e0 gentleman at an a\uc0\u383 \u383 embly where they Woe \
lots Fr ers. \
\
\
ETER che witty does 3 n \
_ He'll dance with none but what are fairs \
\
A0 \uc0\u383 hould he draw an ugly dame, \
He'd \uc0\u383 acrifice her to the flame. \
But now, to give the D\'97] his due, | \
Suppo\uc0\u383 e the ladies \u383 hou!d re\u383 olve like you, \
And vow they never would di\uc0\u383 pen\u383 e | \
Their favours but to men of \uc0\u383 en\u383 e; \
And not to trip it but with tho\uc0\u383 e \
Who are as hand\uc0\u383 ome as their cloaths: \
Should they do this\'97 Well, Sir, what then? \
Why, Sir, you'd never dance again. \
\
\
The Tippling Philo\uc0\u383 opher: \
\
\
OM, \uc0\u383 tudious all the morning, thinks, \
And all the afternoon he drinks; \
A dry way \uc0\u383 ure is his of thinking, \
Which can require \uc0\u383 uch after-drinking. \
\
\
On a Papi\uc0\u383 t's praying to the Statue of a Saint. \
\
\
HEN you before an image kneeling down, \
Cry, with grave face, Our Father to the \
\uc0\u383 tone; \
Forgive me if I \uc0\u383 ay you \u383 eem to me, \
More \uc0\u383 en\u383 ele\u383 s than the thing to which you pray; \
As you your\uc0\u383 elf by this expre\u383 \u383 ion own, * \
For he's a block who\uc0\u383 e father is a fone. \
\
\
THE ,EAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 161 \
On an. ugly woman in the dark, \
\
\
Hil\uc0\u383 t in the dark on thy \u383 oft hand I hung, | \
And. heard the SOULS Syren in thy \
tongue, | \
\
\
What flames, what darts, what angui\uc0\u383 h I endur'd! \
But when the candle enter'd, I was cur d. \
\
\
In\uc0\u383 cribed en a column erefed on a piece of 2 that \
had been often bought and \uc0\u383 old. 8 \
\
\
Whom thou \uc0\u383 ee\u383 t begirt with tow'ring oaks, \
\
Was once the property of John o'Nokes ;; \
On him pro\uc0\u383 perity no longer \u383 miles, \'97 If | \
And now I \uc0\u383 eed the flocks of John \'a9'Stiles. '* \'a9 | \
My former ma\uc0\u383 ter calbd me by his name; * ; \
My pre\uc0\u383 ent owner fondly does the \u383 ame; \'a9 | \
While I, alike unworthy of their cares, | \
Quick pa\uc0\u383 s to captors; purcha\u383 ers, or heirs: \
Let no one henceforth take me for his own, \
For, Fortune] Fortune! I am thine alone. \
\
\
The \
Hene'e I wive, young Strephon cry:d,.- \
Ye pow'rs that o'er the noo\uc0\u383 e pre\u383 ide] | \
\
Wit, beauty, wealth, and humour give, \{ \
Or let me \uc0\u383 till a rover live: 9 \
But if all the\uc0\u383 e no nymph can \u383 hare, \
And I'm prede\uc0\u383 tin'd to the \u383 nare, \
Let mine, ye pow'rs! be doubly fair. \
Tus pray'd the \uc0\u383 wain in heat of blood, \
While Cupid at his elbow \uc0\u383 tood; \
And twitching him, \uc0\u383 aid, Youth be wi\u383 e, ' \
A\uc0\u383 k not impo\u383 \u383 ibilities: \
A faultle\uc0\u383 s make, a manag'd wit, \
Humour and fortune never met: \
\
\
102 uiuing macros: on, \
\
\
But if a beauty you'd obtain, \
Court me bright Phillis o' the Brain; \
\
\
'The dear idea long enjoy, \
\
Clean is the bli\uc0\u383 s, and will not cloy. \
But tru\uc0\u383 t me, youth, for I'm \u383 incere, \
And know the ladies to a hair; \
Howe'er imall poets whine upon it, \
In madrigal, and \uc0\u383 ong, and \u383 onnet; \
\
\
Their beauty's but a \uc0\u383 pell to bring \
\
\
A lover to th' inchanted ring, \
\
Ere the \uc0\u383 ack- po\u383 \u383 et is dige\u383 ted, \
\
Or half of Hymen's taper wa\uc0\u383 ted, \
\
The winning air, the wanton trip, \
The radiant eye, the velvet lip, | \
From which you fragrant ki\uc0\u383 \u383 es \u383 tole, . | \
And \uc0\u383 eem'd to \u383 uck her \u383 pringing \u383 oul. --- \
The\uc0\u383 e, and the re\u383 t, you doted on, \
Are nau\uc0\u383 eous and in\u383 ipid grown; \
The ell di\uc0\u383 \u383 olves, the cloud is gone, \
And Sachari\uc0\u383 \u383 a turns to Joan. \
\
\
Certain prie\uc0\u383 t had hoarded \
A ma\uc0\u383 s of \u383 ecret gold; \
And, where he might be\uc0\u383 tow it \u383 afe, \
He knew not to be bold. \
\
\
At la\uc0\u383 t it came into his thought \
To lock it in a che\uc0\u383 t, \
\
Within the chancel; and he wrote \
Thereon, Hic Deus eft. \
\
\
A merry grig, who\uc0\u383 e greedy mind \
\
\
Did long for \uc0\u383 uch a prey, \
Re\uc0\u383 pecting not the \u383 acred words, \
That on the ca\uc0\u383 ket lay, \
\
\
\
\
Took out the gold, and blotting out \
The prie\uc0\u383 ts in\u383 eript, thereon \
Wrote, Re\uc0\u383 urrexit, non eft hic ; \
Your god is ro\uc0\u383 e, and gone. \
\
\
The Lout ene for his beifer. 4 tale. | \
\
\
T \uc0\u383 o befel, ==*A filly \u383 rain \
Had \uc0\u383 ought his heifer long in vain: \
\
For wanton, \uc0\u383 he had fri\u383 king \u383 tray'd, \
And left the lawn to \uc0\u383 eek the \u383 hade. \
Around the plain he rolls his eyes, \
Then to the wood, in ha\uc0\u383 te he hies; \
Where \uc0\u383 ingling out the talle\u383 t tree, \
He climbs in hopes to hear or \uc0\u383 ee. \
\
ANON, there chanc'd that way to pa\uc0\u383 a \
A jolly lad and buxom la\uc0\u383 s: | \
The place was apt, the pa\uc0\u383 ttme plea\u383 ant; \'fe \
Occa\uc0\u383 ion with her forelock pre\u383 ent: \
\
\
163 \
\
\
The girl agog, the gallant read; \
\
\
So lightly down he lays my lady; \
But \uc0\u383 o \u383 he turn'd, or \u383 o was laid, \
\
That \uc0\u383 he \u383 ome certain charms di\u383 play'd, \
Which with \uc0\u383 uch wonder \u383 truck his \u383 ight, \
(With wonder much; more with delight) \
That loud he cry'd, in rapture, What! \
What \uc0\u383 ee I, gods! what fee I not! - \
\
\
But nothing nam'd; \uc0\u383 rom whence *tis gue\u383 s'd, \
\
\
"Twas more than well could be expre\uc0\u383 s'd. \
TER clown aloft, who lent an ear, \
\
Strait \uc0\u383 topt him \u383 hort in mid career: \
\
And louder cry'd, Ho! hone\uc0\u383 t friend, \
\
\
That of thy \uc0\u383 eeing \u383 eeft no end; \
\
\
Doft \uc0\u383 ee the heifer that I \u383 eek? \
If deft, pray be fo Rind as \uc0\u383 peak. \
\
\
Ver\uc0\u383 es written on the gates of Bologna in Italy, much \
admired by travellers, and others who have by \
\
\
chance met with them. \
7 Hat, if the \uc0\u383 tatelie\u383 t buildings were thyown? \
What, if the choice\uc0\u383 t fruits thy table crown? \
If thou ha\uc0\u383 t heaps on heaps of gold in \u383 tore, \
\
\
And each fucceeding year \uc0\u383 till adding more? \
What, if thou had\uc0\u383 t the faire\u383 t, kinde\u383 t wile, \
\
\
To be the \uc0\u383 weet companion cf thy life? \
\
\
If thou art ble\uc0\u383 s'd with \u383 ons, a large eftate, \
And all around magnificent and great; \
What, if thou'rt comely, valiant, rich and \uc0\u383 trong, \
And feache\uc0\u383 t others in each art, each tongue; | \
\
If thou ha\uc0\u383 t numerous '\u383 ervants at command, \
\
All things in \uc0\u383 tore, and ready to thy hand; \
\
If thou wert king, commander of a nation \
\
Full thou\uc0\u383 and happy years without vexation ; \
\
If fortune rais'd thee to the highe\uc0\u383 t \u383 traitr \
\
Of grandeur, wealth, and dignity. ' What then? \
Soon, very \uc0\u383 oon, all ends and comes to nought; \
Virtue alone's the greate\uc0\u383 t glory \u383 ought: \
Obey th' Almighty's will, from hence ari\uc0\u383 e \
\
All arr. en in this all glory lies. \
\
\
The di\uc0\u383 appointed laben. \
\\ Scolding * \uc0\u383 o long a fleep naf\u383 u\u383 s\'94 * \
\
\
Her \uc0\u383 pou\u383 e pre\u383 um'd her \u383 oul was now at re\u383 t, \
Sable was call'd, to hang the room with black, \
And all their cheer was \uc0\u383 ugar-rolls and fack: \
Two mourning \uc0\u383 taffs, \u383 tood Fontry at the door, \
\
\
And Silence reign'd, who ne'er was there before. \
The cloaks and tears and handkerchiefs prepar'd, \
\
\
1 march'd in woe ful pomp to Abchurch-yard. ; \
\
\
\
When, \uc0\u383 ee of narrow \u383 treets what mischiefs come! \
'The very dead can't pa\uc0\u383 s in quiet home. \
\
By \uc0\u383 ome rude jolt the coffin lid was broke, \
And madam from her dream of death awoke. .. \
Now all was \uc0\u383 poil'd! the undertaker's pay, \
\
Sour faces, cakes, and wine quite thrown away. \
But \uc0\u383 ome-years after, when the former \u383 cene \
Was aCted, and the coffin nail'd again, \
\
The tender hu\uc0\u383 band took e\u383 pecial care \
\
'To keep the pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age from di\u383 turbance clear; \
Charging the bearers that they tread aright, \
\
Nor put his dear in \uc0\u383 uch another fright. \
\
\
Poor Dick. A Tale. | \
\
\
S Richard walk'd with Peggy, hand in hand, \
\
Rea\uc0\u383 on could \u383 carce ew fierce de\u383 ires com- \
mand, \
His wi\uc0\u383 hing eyes did his \u383 ond longings tell, \
\
Her brea\uc0\u383 ts with equal longings ro\u383 e and fell. \
Peggy was ba\uc0\u383 hful, Richard was too flow, \
\
Both long'd to tell their wi\uc0\u383 h, yet knew not how. \
In trembling accent Richard thus begun, \
\
Peggy, your beauty has my peace undone; \
Where'er J go you \uc0\u383 till are in my mind, \
\
No other thought can there admittance find; \
\
Or thra\uc0\u383 hing here, or praying in the pew, _ \
Your image does my \uc0\u383 cattered thoughts pur\u383 ue. . \
a He \uc0\u383 aid; and blu\u383 hing turn'd his face away, \
To hear what Peggy in return would \uc0\u383 ay; \
\
Who was o'erjoy'd to hear the \uc0\u383 wain \u383 o kind, \
And was re\uc0\u383 olv'd \u383 he would not lag behind. \
Richard, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, \
\
Pre often thought your hands were \uc0\u383 ofter much \
Than any \uc0\u383 wain's that 1 did ever touch \
\
\
Your plea\uc0\u383 ant eyes with greater lu\u383 ter \u383 hine, \
And cherry checks, and white\uc0\u383 t teeth are thine; \
Your \uc0\u383 hining hair in gayer wringlets flows, \
\
And every feature \uc0\u383 till \u383 uperior thews. \
O'erjoy'd, the \uc0\u383 hepherd ki\u383 s'd the lovely maid, \
Which \uc0\u383 he with wanton eagerne\u383 s repaid. \
\
A kifs, good gods! which might the colde\uc0\u383 t \u383 ire, \
\
\
And rai\uc0\u383 e in wintry age a young de\u383 ire: \
\
\
But he, who never knew the like before, \
Broke into vile abu\uc0\u383 e, and call'd her whore; \
To hawking fell, and wiping of his mouth, \
And often \uc0\u383 wore, the ki\u383 s was quite uncouth. \
Peggy, finding her kindne\uc0\u383 s thus abus'd, \
Of weak \uc0\u383 tupidity the \u383 wain accus'd; \
Shew'd him bis folly and her kind intent, \
\
\
And blu\uc0\u383 hing told him what that \u383 oftne\u383 s meant; | \
Richard with tears his folly did repent, \
\
\
And try'd each art the dam\uc0\u383 el to content, \
But all in vain, Peggy would ric'er relent; \
Eurag'd, the, \uc0\u383 wore the would rev enge the trick, \
\
\
8\uc0\u8304  \u383 ent him packing with an- Ah poor Dick! \
\
\
A d:\uc0\u383 cription of the morning in town. \
\
\
OW hardly here and there a backney-coach \
Appearing, \uc0\u383 hew'd the ruddy morn's ap- \
pProach. \
\
Nov Betty from her ma\uc0\u383 ter's bed had \u383 carcely flown, \
\
And \uc0\u383 oftly \u383 tole to di\u383 compo\u383 e her own. \
\
\
The \uc0\u383 lip \'b7 od prentice from bis ma\u383 ter's door \
Had par'd the dirt, and \uc0\u383 prinkled round the floor. | \
Now Moll had whirl'd the mop with dextrous airs, | \
\
\
Prepar'd to wa\uc0\u383 h the entry and the \u383 tairs, - \
The youth with breomy \uc0\u383 tumps began to trace \
The kennel- edge, where won had worrfthe BIS, \
\
\
\
\
The \uc0\u383 mall-coal man was heard with cadence deep, \
Till drown'd with \uc0\u383 hriller notes of chimney-\u383 weep. \
Duns at his lord\uc0\u383 hip's door began to meet; \
\
And brick-du\uc0\u383 t Moll has \u383 cream'd thro\'94 half the \u383 treet. \
The turnkey now his flock returning \uc0\u383 ees, \
\
Duly let out at night to \uc0\u383 teal for fees. | \
The watchful bailifs take their filent \uc0\u383 tands ; \
And \uc0\u383 chool-boys lag with \u383 atchels in their hands. \
\
\
The captain and failor. A tale. \
\
\
8 John, the \uc0\u383 ailor, and his la\u383 s \
One morn were tripping o'er the gra\uc0\u383 s, \
\
To gather white-thorn, as they \uc0\u383 ay, \
It being on the fir\uc0\u383 t of May, \
'They did a jolly captain meet, - \
And courteoully each other greet. \
Fir\uc0\u383 t John the \u383 ailor touch'd his nat, \
The captain bow'd, began to chat; \
Saying, John, pray how came this to pa\uc0\u383 s, \
Where pick'd you up this comely la\uc0\u383 s, \
With ro\uc0\u383 y cheeks, and \u383 parkling eyes, \
Tho\uc0\u383 e \u383 nowy brea\u383 ts that fall and rife, \
Tempting to \uc0\u383 ome more \u383 ecret bli\u383 s ? \
Oh! John, I mu\uc0\u383 t,---mu\u383 t have a kifs; \
And you, whene'er you meet my dame, \
Sha!l welcome be to do the fame. \
\
No w, \uc0\u383 ome days after, being fair, \
The captain walk'd to take the air; \
Led in his hand his comely bride, \
Which luckily young Johnny \uc0\u383 py'd; \
And bowing faid, Sir, you know what, \
I hope you ha'n't your word forgot? \
\
No, John (he an\uc0\u383 wer'd) by my life, \
"Tis your turn now,---\uc0\u383 ee here's my wife. \
\
\
1638 DE MOCRITUS: o R, \
\
\
John \uc0\u383 miling, cock'd his hat a\u383 ide, \
\
And boldly ki\uc0\u383 s'd the captain's bride, \
Crying, ye gods! I'd give a crown, \
\
Had he but laid my Nancy down. \
\
What then (quoth madam) would you do? \
Why we'd have had a tumble too. \
\
\
The law-\uc0\u383 uit. \
\
\
WO parties had a diff\'94rence, and the cau\uc0\u383 e \
\
Did come to be decided by the laws: \
The bribing plaintiff did the judge pre\uc0\u383 ent \
With a new coach, tother, with \uc0\u383 ame intent, \
Gives him two hor\uc0\u383 es; each with like de\u383 ign, \
To make the judge to his own fide incline. \
The cau\uc0\u383 e being try'd, the plaintiffs overthrown ; \
O coach, \uc0\u383 aid he, thou art the wrong way gone! \
The judge reply'd, It cannot but be \uc0\u383 o; \
For where his hor\uc0\u383 es draw, your coach mu\u383 t go. \
\
\
The Nonparetl. \
\
\
ARLY this morn, a time to u\uc0\u383 es kind, \
Willing to draw one woman to my mind, \
\
Wi\uc0\u383 e without pride, without coquetting fair, \
\
Cha\uc0\u383 te as the unblown ro\u383 e, yet free as air; \
\
In language ea\uc0\u383 y, and in temper \u383 weet, \
\
And moderately learn'd, and \uc0\u383 imply great; \
\
Who ne'ecr one \uc0\u383 tep from virtue's paths had trod, \
\
True to her friend, but truer to her God. \
\
But when I on the picture thought, I cry'd, \
\
No \uc0\u383 uch can be, and flung my pen a\u383 ide. \
\
My mu\uc0\u383 e then kindly whi\u383 per'd, Such can be, \
\
Bid me Eliz'beth write and that was \uc0\u383 he. \
\
\
THE T,AUGHING PHILOSOPHER, 169 \
\
\
Ges Folt and his cart. \
\
\
ILES Jolt, as \uc0\u383 leeping in his cart he lay, \
\
l Some pilf' ring villain \uc0\u383 tole his team away: \
Giles wakes and cries, What's here? a dickins, what! \
Why how now--- Am I Giles, or am I not? \
\
If he---P've lo\uc0\u383 t fix geldings to my \u383 mart: \
\
If not---Odd\uc0\u383 buddikins, I've found a cart. \
\
\
The be\uc0\u383 t cure for Love. \
\
\
F two reliefs, to cure a love-fick mind, \
(\} Flavia pre\uc0\u383 cribes de\u383 pair; TI urge be kind. \
Flavia be kind: The remedy's as \uc0\u383 ure, \
\
Tis the mo\uc0\u383 t plea\u383 ant, and the quicke\u383 t cure. \
\
\
To Charinus, an ugly woman's hu\uc0\u383 eagd. \
\
\
H ARINUS, 'twas my hap of late, \
To have a fight of thy dear mate: \
\
50 white, \uc0\u383 o flourithing, \u383 o Hair, \
3o trim, fo mode\uc0\u383 t, debonnair; \
That if goodJove wou'd grant to me \
A lea\uc0\u383 e of beauties, \u383 uch as \u383 he, \
\
I'd give the devil, at one word, \
\
Two, that he'd take away the third. \
\
\
A lame Beggar. \
\
\
Am "ER vs yander beggar crics, \
To \uc0\u383 tand or move; if he fays true, he 7-5, \
\
\
The Cgurtier and the Scholar. \
\
\
Haughty courtier meeting in the \uc0\u383 treets \
A \uc0\u383 cholar, him thus imm greets; \
Ba\uc0\u383 e men to take the wall, I ne'ec permit; \
The Molar \uc0\u383 aid, I do, and gave him it. \
H \
\
\
170 DE MOCRIT US: OR, \
\
\
On a flingy Beau. \
\
\
NURIO's rich fide- board \uc0\u383 eldom \u383 ees the light, \
\
\
Clean is his kitchen, and his \uc0\u383 pits are bright; \
His knives and forks all rang'd in even rows, \
No bands mole\uc0\u383 t, or fingers interpo\u383 e; \
A curious jack, hung up to plea\uc0\u383 e the eye, \
For ever \uc0\u383 tillz who\u383 e flyers never fly: \
His plates un\uc0\u383 ullied, \u383 hining on the \u383 helf; \
For Curio dref\uc0\u383 es nothing, but him\u383 elf: \
\
\
On @ ha\uc0\u383 ly Marriage. \
\
\
Artied! *tis well! a mighty ble\uc0\u383 \u383 ing! \
But poor's the joy, no coin po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ing ? \
\
\
In ancient time, when folk did wed, \
\
\
"T['was to be one at board and bed; \
But hard's his ca\uc0\u383 e, who can't afford, \
His charmer either bed or board. \
\
\
On Cra\uc0\u383 \u383 us, a covetous par\u383 on. \
\
\
Nform'd in nature's \uc0\u383 hop while Cra\u383 \u383 us lay, \
A cumb'rous heap of coar\uc0\u383 e neglected clay, \
Pray, Madam, fays the foreman of the trade, \
What of yon paltry rubbi\uc0\u383 h mu\u383 t be made? \
For *tis too gro\uc0\u383 s, \u383 aid he, and unrefin'd, \
To be the carea\uc0\u383 e of a thinking mind; \
Then 'tis too lumpi\uc0\u383 h, and too \u383 tiff to make \
A fo\'de, a beau, a witling, or a rake; \
Nor is it for a lady's footman fit, \
For ladies? footmen mu\uc0\u383 t have \u383 en\u383 e and wit: \
A warrior mu\uc0\u383 t be vigilant and bold, \
And therefore claims a bri\uc0\u383 k and airy mould; \
A \uc0\u383 tate\u383 man mu\u383 t be \u383 kill'd in various arts, \
A mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s mu\u383 t have charms, a pimp have parts. \
\
\
A lawyer without craft will get no fees, \
This matter, therefore, will make none of the\uc0\u383 e ; \
\
\
In \uc0\u383 hort, I plainty think it good for nought, \
But, Madam, I de\uc0\u383 ire your better thought. \
\
\
Why, Tom, \uc0\u383 aid \u383 he, in a di\u383 dainful tone, \
Among\uc0\u383 t the \u383 weeping let it then be thrown. \
\
Or make = a par\uc0\u383 on of the u\u383 ele\u383 s \u383 tuff, \
Twill \uc0\u383 erve a preaching blockhead well enough. \
\
\
The real affliftion., \
\
\
ORIS, a widow pa\uc0\u383 t her prime, \
Her \uc0\u383 pou\u383 e long dead, wailing doubles; \
\
Her real griefs increa\uc0\u383 e by time, | \
\
And what abates, improves her troubles. \
Tho\uc0\u383 e pangs her prudent hopes \u383 uppre\u383 s'd, \
\
Impatient now the cannot \{mother : \
How \uc0\u383 hould the helple\u383 s woman re\u383 t ? \
\
One's gone; - nor can \uc0\u383 he ind another. \
\
\
Crace after Meat ; \uc0\u383 poken extempete by a gentleman \
at the table of a Mi\uc0\u383 er, who, once in his li 5e, \
made a \uc0\u383 umptuous entertainment. \
\
\
Hanks for the i for 'tis: no o la \
Than to eat manna in the wilderne\uc0\u383 s: \
Where hunger reign'd, there we have found relief, \
And \uc0\u383 een the wonder of a chine of becf. \
Chimnies have \uc0\u383 moak'd that never \u383 moak'd before, \
And we have eat where we \uc0\u383 hall eat no more. \
\
\
On Sir Marmaduke yvilPs receiving three letters \
by the fame p e\uc0\u383 t, advi\u383 ing: of the death of his mi- \
 Rrre\uc0\u383 s, his wife, and his hor\u383 e. \
\
\
'VE lo\uc0\u383 t my mi\u383 tre\u383 s, hor\u383 e and wife; \
But when I think on human life, \
H 2 \
\
\
t72 "DEMOCRITVUS: OR, \
I'm glad it is no wor\uc0\u383 e. \
\
My wife was ugly, and a \uc0\u383 cold; \
\
My mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s was grown lean, and old; \
I'm 52 for n uy hor\uc0\u383 e, \
\
\
m. W 1 SH: By a young Lady, \
\
\
Ak not wit, nor beauty do I crave, \
Nor wealth, nor pompous titles will I have; \
\
But \uc0\u383 ince *tis doom'd thro! all degrees of life, \
Whether a daughter, filter, or a wife, \'97 \
That \uc0\u383 emales \u383 hould the \u383 tronger males obey, * \
And yield implicit to their lordly \uc0\u383 ways . -- \
Since this, I \uc0\u383 ay, is woman's fate, | \
Give me a mind to \uc0\u383 uit my \u383 lavi\u383 n \u383 tate. \
\
\
SY LVI A. \
\
\
RIES Sylvia to a rev'rend dean, \
| What rea\uc0\u383 on can be given, \
Since marriage is a holy thing, \
\
That there are none in heaven? \
There are no women, he reply'd: \
She quick returns the je\uc0\u383 t\'97 _ \
Women there are, but Pm afraid \
They cannot find a prie\uc0\u383 t. \
\
\
| h On the derivation of the word News. \
HE word explains it\uc0\u383 elf without the Mu\u383 e, \
\
\
And the four letters \uc0\u383 peak whence come the \
news: \
\
\
| From North, Ea\uc0\u383 t We\u383 t,and South, \u383 olution? s made, \
il Each quarter gives account of war and trade. \
\
\
he \
\
\
le, \
\
\
The par\uc0\u383 on for a bene\u383 ice lays wait; \
\
\
The lover courts to gain a bli\uc0\u383 sful \u383 pot, \
\
\
And in the plunder of the town delights. \
\
\
THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 173 \
\
\
On the marriage of Mi\uc0\u383 s LAM R t9 Mr. Liox, who \
From a great rake became \'e0\'f9 geed hu\uc0\u383 band. \
\
\
HAT love works miracles we find; \
\{0 Lo! this event di\uc0\u383 covers; \
An union of amazing kind! \
Who thought they'd e'er be lovers ? \
Po\uc0\u383 terity will think it \u383 trange, f \
Believe it all a \uc0\u383 ham, ' \
When they are told the mighty change, \
\
\
That Lion \uc0\u383 ports with Lamb. \
Farther\'97how wondrous twill appear, | \
Which may well \uc0\u383 ay fie on, \
When they with truth this \uc0\u383 tory hear, 0 \
A Lamb has tam'd a Lion. | | \
\
| \
\
\
The various Humours of Mankind. | \
\
\
IVE me a charming la\uc0\u383 s, young Raki\u383 h cries, 1 \
I know no happine\uc0\u383 s, but love's \u383 weet j Joys, \
Give me the bottle, \uc0\u383 ays the red- fac'd \u383 ot, \
Damn whores, they are not worth a \uc0\u383 ingle pot, \
For flights and \uc0\u383 imiles the poet raves; \
The learn'd philo\uc0\u383 opher true knowledge craves; \
\
\
The proud man covets to be rich and great. \
\
\
And nice Sir Courtly wants\'97he knows not what, \
The \uc0\u383 oldier loves to conquer, when he fights, \
\
\
The lu\uc0\u383 tful matron \u383 eeks a \u383 trong gallant, _ \
The ripe young virgin does a hu\uc0\u383 band want. \
But I, poor I, want ev*ry thing by turns, \
Except a \uc0\u383 colding wife, and cuckold's horns. \
\
\
Spoken by a Servant Maid in the Church-yard, doing \
penance for defaming her mi\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s. \
\
\
ERE do I \uc0\u383 tayd according to law, \
Compell'd to deny what both mine eyes \uc0\u383 aw, \
His breeches were down, her belly was bare, \
\
\
\'ab If he did nothing, what did he do there.\'94 \
\
\
Spoken extempore by a Seaman on his Comrade, that \
was \uc0\u383 hot in an engagement, and flung over- board. \
\
\
Ntomb'd within a Tiquid wave, \
\
Lies hone\uc0\u383 t Philip, once \u383 o brave: \
Such men as him the king has need of, \
Pox take the ball that \uc0\u383 hot his head off! \
And \uc0\u383 ent: at once his brawny erupper, \
To give \uc0\u383 ome greedy \u383 hark a \u383 upper. \
Fire! my lads, by all that's good, \
We'll fight till we revenge his blood! \
It never \uc0\u383 hall be \u383 aid but we, \
\
To one we lofe, will knock down three. \
\
\
On a Lady who was very hand\uc0\u383 ome and very kind, \
\
\
HLOE's the wonder of her \uc0\u383 ex, \
"Tis. well her heart is tender; \
How might \uc0\u383 uch killing eyes perplex, \
With virtue to defend her! \
' But nature, graciou\uc0\u383 ly inclin'd, \
Not bent to. vex, but plea\uc0\u383 e us, \
Has to her boundle\uc0\u383 s beauty join'd \
A boundle\uc0\u383 s. will to plea\u383 e us. \
\
\
On a great hou\uc0\u383 e. adorned with flatues: \
\
\
HE walls are thick, the \uc0\u383 ervants thin, \
The gods without, the devil within. \
\
\
Tua Millers of Manche\uc0\u383 ter wanting all the inbabi- \
tants to grind corn at their mill; though they were \
not able to \uc0\u383 upply the town, ceca\u383 ioned the follqw- \
ing lines. By Mr. Byron. * | \
\
\
ONE and Skin, two millers thin, \
B Would ftarve us all, or near it, \
But be it known to Skin and Bone, A \
That fle\uc0\u383 h and blood can't bear it. \
\
\
On an old Maids Marriage. \
By Mr. Jonas Relfe. \
\
\
ELTA, a coquet in her prime, \
4 The vaine\uc0\u383 t fcklie\u383 t thing alive; \
Behold the \uc0\u383 trange effects of time! \
Marries and doats at forty-five. \
Thus weather-cocks who for a while \
Have turn'd about with every bla\uc0\u383 t; \
Grown old and de\uc0\u383 titute of oil, \
Au\uc0\u383 t to a point, and fix at la\u383 t, \
\
\
Under the Pidture M a Beau. \
\
\
HIS rain thing \uc0\u383 et up for a man, \
But \uc0\u383 ee what fate attends him: \
The powd'ring barber fir\uc0\u383 t began, \
The \uc0\u383 urgeon-barber ends him. \
\
\
On a Welthman. \
\
\
Welchman coming late into an inn, \
\
A\uc0\u383 k'd the maid what meat there was within? \
Co heels, \uc0\u383 he an\u383 wer'd, and a brea\u383 t of mutton : \
But, quoth the Welchman, fince I am not glutton, \
\
\
Either of the\uc0\u383 e \u383 hall \u383 erve, to-night the brea\u383 t, \
The heels i' the morning, then light meat is be\uc0\u383 t; \
\
\
At night he took the brea\uc0\u383 t, and did not pay, \
\
\
P th' morning took his heels, and ran away. \
\
\
On a Gentleman who died a day after. bis lady. \
HE fir\uc0\u383 t departed; he for one day try'd \
\
\
Io live without her; lik'd it not, and dy'd. \
\
\
Pinned to a Sheet, in which a Woman flood to do Pe- \
\
\
nance in the Church. \
\
\
ERE \uc0\u383 tand I, for whores as great \
To ca\uc0\u383 t a \u383 cornful eye on; ; \
\
\
Shou!d cach whore here be doom'd a \uc0\u383 heet, \
Tou'd \uc0\u383 con want one to lie- on. \
\
\
E PI GR AM. \
\
\
Ature's chief gifts unequally are carv'd, \
J She\uc0\u383 ur\u383 eits \u383 ome, while many moreare\u383 tary'd, \
Her bread, her wine, her gold, and what before \
\
\
Was common good is now made private \uc0\u383 tore: \
\
\
Nothing that's good we have among us common; \
But all enjoy'd that common Yl\'97a woman, - \
\
\
An Ex1GRAM on two \uc0\u383 pite\u383 ul Brothers. \
\
\
IT H \uc0\u383 obbing voice, upon his death - bed \
fick, a \
\
Thus to his brother \uc0\u383 pake expiring Dick; \
\
\'a9 Tho' during\'97all. my life \'97in poverty. \
\
Thou never Neddy, \uc0\u383 lie w d'. concern for me \
\
I hope thou wilt take care\'97when I am dead \
\
To \uc0\u383 ee me bury'd.\'94 \'93 That I will,\'93 quoth Net, \
\
\
We'll lay thee deep enough, Dick, never fear, \
\
\
Thou \uc0\u383 halt no longer be a nui\u383 ance here: \
\
\
And, as a fit memorial on thy grave, \
Fil write this epitaph, Here lies a Knave.\'94 \
\
Tuts fting pierc'd deep; and keen \uc0\u383 urprizing \
Call'd Dick's rde \uc0\u383 pirits back again; [pain, \
Sarca\uc0\u383 m \u383 o bitter would not let him die, \
\
Tis thus he made as bitter a reply: \
And when thou \uc0\u383 halt be laid "Ty me, dear brother, \
Some friend, I hope will write, Here lies another.\'94 \
\
\
The DANCE AS. \
\
\
T a dancing one night, Sirs,\'97I happen'd to \
\
be, \
Such \uc0\u383 kipping and hopping was there; \
\
The old women a3 blyth as young girls of \uc0\u383 i\u383 teen, \
Such fun I ne'er \uc0\u383 aw I declare; \
\
Such hopping and prancing \uc0\u383 ure never was known, \
They turn'd about like (cach-whec!s; \
\
Like mettle\uc0\u383 ome hories on pavements who cla\u383 h \
They danc'd to thc tune of their heels. \
\
\
John's Reproef. \
\
\
\'97 \
\
\
Hou\uc0\u383 e - maid once took great delight \
Oft at the looking gla\uc0\u383 s, Sir, \
Nor in nor out the room but \uc0\u383 he \
Mu\uc0\u383 t \u383 quit or could not pa\u383 s, Sir. \
\
\
This flattering gla\uc0\u383 s was chiefly \u383 et \
Upon the chamber window; \
\
Her face to tempt the men the thought \
A charming innuendo. \
\
\
Her callico \uc0\u383 wcet \u383 kin, Sir, \
H 5 \
\
\
) \
\
\
178 DEMOCRITUS: on, \
[| Pleas'd to the life\'97while thus \uc0\u383 he gaz'd, \
| The man trip'd \uc0\u383 lily in, Sir. \
\
\
| A rough hewn chap, of manners void, \
\
1 Po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 s'd of \u383 ome low wit, Sir, \
\
Ow'd Kate a grudge\'97and he thought \
Of vanity he'd twit her, \
\
\
| Fir\uc0\u383 t \u383 tood a while\'97then \u383 ilence broke, \
And \uc0\u383 trait began to teize her; \
\
1 Then bluntly ery'dCon\uc0\u383 ider, Kate, \
You're nothing but mop- n. \
\
\
1 \
\
. True Happine\uc0\u383 s: \
\
| Good e\uc0\u383 tate on healthy \u383 oil, \
\
f 5 \
Not got by vice, nor yet by toil: \
| A good warm fire and bucki\uc0\u383 h jokes, \
[ A chimney clean that never \uc0\u383 mokes; \
\
\
A \uc0\u383 trength entire, a \u383 parkling bow], | \
1 A quiet wife, a quiet \uc0\u383 oul, \
\
| A mind as well as body whole. \
\
| Prudent 6mplicity, con\uc0\u383 tant friends, + \
\
| . A diet which no art commends, \
\
. A merry night without much drinking, \
\
| A happy thought without much thinking; \
| | Each night by quiet \uc0\u383 leep made \u383 hort, | \
''$ A will to be but what thou art; \
\
| |  Poflle\uc0\u383 s'd of the\u383 e, all el\u383 e defy, \
\
| : And neither wifh nor fear to die. \
\
\
\'84.. \
\
\
\
\
On little STEPHEN \'e0 noted fddler in the county af \
Suffolk. \
\
\
TEPHEN and time \
Are now both even; . \
Stephen beat time, \
Now time beats Stephen, \
\
\
Cn a very indolent man. \
\
ERE lies John Meyers\'97reader, \uc0\u383 tay, , \
\
And, if thou can'\uc0\u383 t, pray weep, \
\
Who doz'd an 1dle life away, \
And then fell fa\uc0\u383 t a\u383 leep. \
\
In Nottingham church-yard. | | \
ERE lies the body of John Day, \
What young John? No. Old John? Aye, | \
Epitaph on Virgil. | 1 \
\
\
By EUs THENIU s. \
\
\
ERE Virgil, who\uc0\u383 e \u383 weet ver\u383 es deck the lawn 1 \
\
In verdant beauty, \uc0\u383 pread the waving corn, \
O'er cultur'd fields, the Phrygian hero drefs'd \
In martial \uc0\u383 plendor, finds a la\u383 t rece\u383 s, j \
\
\
In Nottingham church-yard. \
\
\
OM Brown lies bury'd herc, \
Aged four and twenty year, \
\
\
| =. \
\
\
\
\
And near this place his father lies, \
Allo his mother when \uc0\u383 he dies. \
\
\
On CHIORE. \
\
\
ERE Chloe hes \
Who\uc0\u383 e once bright eyes. \
Set all the world on fire; \
And not to be. \
| Ungratetul, \uc0\u383 he \
Did all the world admire. \
\
\
On a man and his wife. \
\
\
ERE hes hone\uc0\u383 t Strephon with Mary his wife, \
Who merrily liv'd, and cheer\uc0\u383 ully dy'd; \
They laugli\'e9d, and they lov'd, and drank while \
they were able, \
But now they are forc'd to knock under the table. \
\
\
In Topli\uc0\u383 f church, yard in York\u383 hire. \
\
\
John Bell of Crakchill 1ys under this \uc0\u383 tein, \
Four of my \uc0\u383 ons laid it on my weam. \
was a man of my meat, and ma\uc0\u383 ter of my wife, \
And liv'd in my own hou\uc0\u383 e without mickle \u383 trife, \
If thou ce'\uc0\u383 t a better man in thy time than I was \
| in mine, | ; \
Take this \uc0\u383 tein off my weam, and ly? en on top of \
\
\
thine. \
\
\
On Jobn Pettigrew, minifler at Givan near Cla\uc0\u383 . \
gow, Scotland. \
\
\
ERE lies a rev'rend Givan-prie\uc0\u383 t, \
Who \uc0\u383 ore again\u383 t his will deceas'd; \
His \uc0\u383 oul's to Abraham's bo\u383 om fled: \
As by his revecend elders \uc0\u383 aid: \
\
\
Others, who knew his youthful toys, \
\
\
Say Sarah's rather was his choice: \
But be't as "twill, his \uc0\u383 cabbard's humbled, \
\
\
Death tripp'd up his heels, and down+che tumbled. \
\
\
At Brampton-Bryan. \
\
\
ERE lies the body of All Fours, \
Who lo\uc0\u383 t his money and pawn'd his cloaths; \
\
\
If any one \uc0\u383 hould ask his name, \
\
\
"Tis highe\uc0\u383 t, lowe\u383 t, Jack and game, \
\
\
At Dornoct in Scotland. \
\
\
ERE lies the Lind of RI interr'd * \
fide of which; \
And he was a great oppre\uc0\u383 \u383 or of both poor and rich? \
How he fains, or how he fares, | \
There's nobody kens, and as few cares. \
\
\
At Greatney in Scotland. \
\
\
Near this place lies Be\uc0\u383 \u383 y Ander\u383 on. \
HE place where \uc0\u383 he does lie, \
There's none alive can tell ; \
Until the day of judgment, | \
That Be\uc0\u383 \u383 y ri\u383 e her\u383 cl, . _ | 4 \
\
\
On Mi\uc0\u383 e Pigg. \
\
\
Wider. behold * "ey lies interr'd \
One of the faireft of the herd, \
A \uc0\u383 ucking Pigg her fate bemoan ! \
Her bri\uc0\u383 tles \u383 carce an inch were grown. \
Alas! ye \uc0\u383 wains, her lo\u383 s .deplore, |\'bb - \
The pretty \uc0\u383 ucking thing's no more. \
\
\
\
on the grave tone of aBlack\uc0\u383 mith, buried in Che\u383 ter Y \
\
\
church-yard. \
\
\
T fledge and hammer lie reclin'd; \
My bellows too have lo\uc0\u383 t their wind; \
My fire's extinct, my forge decay'd, \
And in the du\uc0\u383 t my vice is laid; \
My coal is \uc0\u383 pent, my iron's gone, \
\
\
My nails are drove, my work is done; \
\
\
My fire-dry'd corp\uc0\u383 e lies here at re\u383 t; \
My \uc0\u383 oul, \u383 moke-like is \u383 oaring to be ble\u383 s'd. \
\
\
On an unknown per\uc0\u383 on. \
\
\
b Ithout a name, for ever \uc0\u383 en\u383 ele\u383 s, dumb, \
\
\
Du\uc0\u383 t, a\u383 hes, 2 el\u383 e lies within this \
Afb | | | \
Where-e'er I liv'd, or x dy'd, it matters not, \
\
\
To whom related, or by whom begot; \
\
\
J was, but am not, a\uc0\u383 k no more of me; \
Tis all I am, and all that thou \uc0\u383 halt be. \
\
\
On John. \
\
\
ERE lies John, who in few words \
KilPd him\uc0\u383 elf by eating of curds; 3, \
Had he been rul'd by Mary his wife, \
He might have liv'd all the days of his life. \
\
\
On his wife. \
ERE lies: my poor wife without bed. or blanket, \
\
\
But dead as a door-nail, G\'97d be thanked, | \
\
\
\
\
HRE Fanny lies interr'd; aht why, \
Ye gods, was Fanny born to die? \
\
\
\
\
dhe pa\uc0\u383 t at ea\u383 e a country life: \
\
\
Poor Fanny was a harmle\uc0\u383 s fawn. \
\
\
| A Le\uc0\u383 \u383 on learn from this in\u383 tructive tomb, \
\
\
THE: LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER, 183 \
\
\
A female Fanny was, tis true, \
\
But yet no female arts \uc0\u383 he knew; \
\
No vi\uc0\u383 its \u383 he receiv'd, or paid, \
\
Nor ever \uc0\u383 troll'd to ma\u383 querade; \
\
Court, opera, park, and play and ball \
\
The prudent Fanny \uc0\u383 corn'd them all. \
ALL tho\uc0\u383 e who knew her, mu\u383 t confe\u383 s, \
\
She never took a pride in dre\uc0\u383 s; \
\
For one brown garment, coar\uc0\u383 e and plain, \
\
(A \uc0\u383 ence again\u383 t the cold and rain) \
\
Was all the cloaths poor Fanny wore, \
\
Who never wi\uc0\u383 h'd, or thought of more. \
'VoiD of all anxious care and ftrite, \
\
\
A virgin to her dying day; \
\
Was ever chearful, ever gay; \
\
And \uc0\u383 uch an even temper kept, \
\
She never laugh'd, nor ever wept; \
So little given to offend, \
\
She got no foe, nor lo\uc0\u383 t no friend; \
Nay, though a female (matter rare!) \
Was prais'd and honour'd by the fair. \
Then, reader, if thou ha\uc0\u383 t a tear, \
\
I pr'ythee \uc0\u383 tay, and drop it here: \
\
But le\uc0\u383 t ty eyes too fa\u383 t \u383 hould flow, \
Methinks 'tis fair to let thee know, \
Though Fanny true, is dead and gone, \
\
\
On 4 gentleman \uc0\u383 utpofed to POE fallen \'e0 victim ar \
tlie \uc0\u383 brine of Venus. | \
\
\
Who, through his wife, has reach'd his PH, E \
"ther" $ womb! | \
\
On a graves\uc0\u383 tone in a country church: yard in Nor- \
\
\
thampton. \
\
\
TIME was I flood where thou do\uc0\u383 t now, \
And view'd the dead as thou do\uc0\u383 t me; \
Ere long thou'lt lie as low as I, \
And others \uc0\u383 tand and look on thee. \
\
\
On \
\
\
HRE lies that doubly-broken \uc0\u383 oul of whim, \
Who \uc0\u383 pent his fortune\'97and his fortune him. \
\
\
On Nell Hog \uc0\u383 bead, a drunken wife, who died (after \
a hearty \{will) \uc0\u383 uddenly in her fleep. \'ab\'a9 \
\
\
LT OW hard my fate! for as 1 took a nap, \
After a gallon of a noble tap, \
Death came, a bravo, in my hu\uc0\u383 band's quarrel, \
\
\
Cord up my breath, and \uc0\u383 av'd his groaning barrel. \
\
\
On Jobn Garret. \
\
\
ReEneath this \uc0\u383 tone lies Johnny Garret, \
Who kill'd him\uc0\u383 elf\'97by drinking claret. \
\
\
The following epitaph is tran\uc0\u383 lated verbatim from \'e0 \
tomb: \uc0\u383 tone in the ifle of a church in Burgundy. \
\
\
ERE lies John Veroles, a farmer and labour- \
\
er in this pari\uc0\u383 h; he never a\u383 ked a favour of \
\
any man; he never was in a city; he lored his \
king, but never \uc0\u383 aw him. He never knew what it \
was to fear him\uc0\u383 elf, nor make others afraid; he ne- \
ver was acquainted with want, pain, or pri\uc0\u383 on dur- \
\
\
ing a life of 94 years: he never \uc0\u383 aw in his hou\u383 e \
accident, di\uc0\u383 pute, or di\u383 ea\u383 e. \
\
\
Its contra\uc0\u383 t. To the memory of Lord Ligonier. \
\
\
ERE lies a \uc0\u383 oldier and an hone\u383 t man, \
Who long prolong'd his life on David's plan; \
But fate and death, who all our \uc0\u383 chemes defeat, \
ChilPd the poor corp\uc0\u383 e, in \u383 pite of virgin heat. \
\
\
\
\
A Curious CooL LET ION of entire New \
C O NUN D RU M S. \
\
\
HY is an ill-natur'd man like vinegar ? \
Becau\uc0\u383 e he's \u383 our. \
why is beauty like a flower ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it fades. \
why 1s a book like a gla\uc0\u383 s? \
| becau\uc0\u383 e it is often looked into. \
why is a grocer's counter like a fi\uc0\u383 h ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it has \u383 cales upon it. \
why is a good \uc0\u383 cholar like a po\u383 t ma\u383 ter? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he is a man of letters. \
why is the world like a Che\uc0\u383 hire chee\u383 e? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is round. | \
why is \uc0\u383 orrow like an onion ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it makes us cry. \
what is a thief like? \
like to be hanged. \
why is a good \uc0\u383 hip like a fine lady? p \
becau\uc0\u383 e \u383 he is well rigged. \
why is going into the country li ke learning todance? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it gives one a air. . \
what is that which G5 50 1 ber ade, and command- \
ed not to be ma 190 yer was made, ana has \
a \uc0\u383 oul to be , * n \
\
\
136 DEMOCRITUS: ON, \
A cuckold. _ | \
why is an ordinary face of a woman like the quar- \
ters of a \uc0\u383 hip' \u383 toutly fitted? \
becau\uc0\u383 e the upper parts defend the hatches. \
Why is my lord-mayor like an almanack? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he \u383 erves but one year. \
why 1 is Ireland like a bottle of wine? \
becau\uc0\u383 e there is Cork in it. \
why is a fir\uc0\u383 t floor like a lie? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is a \u383 tory rai\u383 ed ?. \
why is-a pretty lady like an cat \'b7 cake? \
becau\uc0\u383 e \u383 he is often toa\u383 ted, | | \
whyare a parcel of rakes like a pack of Lad hounds ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e they are \u383 ad dogs. \
why is c/aret like an oath? * \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is binding. \
why is a book like a tice? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is full of leaves. \
why is the book called the whole duty of man like \
a pair of breeches ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it contains the duty of an hu\u383 band to kis \
3 wife. \
why is a cobler like a par\uc0\u383 on? ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he mends the \u383 oal. \
why is it impo\uc0\u383 \u383 ible to ravidh \u383 ome women ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e they-are willing, \
why are free-ma\uc0\u383 ons like an old maid? \
\'97 becau\uc0\u383 e their joke is \u383 tale. \
why is a woman with child like a gentleman ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e \u383 he \u383 news her breeding. \
why is a little man like a good book? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he is often looked, over. \
\
\
hy is a fi\uc0\u383 h-hook like a bull?- / \
\
\
becau\uc0\u383 e it is \u383 ometimes baited. \
why is a malefaCtor like the root of a tongue ? \
\
\
* THE LAUGHING PHILOSOPHER. 187 \
\
\
becau\uc0\u383 e he is down in the mouth. \
\
why is a lock like an hofpital ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is. full of wards. \
\
why is marriage like a curtain? 1 \
becau\uc0\u383 e it \u383 erves for a blind. \
\
why is a tavern like a table? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it has drawers in it. \
\
why is a looking-gla\uc0\u383 s like a pt io\u383 apher? * \
becau\uc0\u383 e it reflects. \
\
why is a brewer's hor\uc0\u383 e like a tap\u383 ter ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he draws drink. \
\
why is New-market like the admiral of a \uc0\u383 qua- \
\
dron? \
\
becau\uc0\u383 e it is in the fleet. \
\
why is a good picture like a quart of liquor? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it 1s a good draught. \
\
why is an unbound book like a lady in bed? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is in \u383 heets, \
\
why is a poor man like a \uc0\u383 emp\u383 tre\u383 s ? | \
becau\uc0\u383 e he makes \u383 hifts, : \
\
why is a drawn tooth like a thing forgot? : \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is out of the head. \
\
why is Richmond like the letter R? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is a little beyond Kew. \
\
why are turned coats like \uc0\u383 ailors? \
becau\uc0\u383 e u\u383 ually pre\u383 s'd. \
\
why is an old \uc0\u383 hip like a vagabond? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it ought to be put in the \u383 tocks. \
\
why is a man on hor\uc0\u383 eback like a fan! ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he is mounted; \
\
why is a goaler like a mu\uc0\u383 ician? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he \u383 ingers the keys. \
\
what old \uc0\u383 aying is that which women will not be- \
\
teve ? \
Mort and \uc0\u383 weet. \
\
\
\
what kind of book may a man wi\uc0\u383 h his wife were \
like? \
an almanack; for then he might g get a new one \
every year. \
what was the fir\uc0\u383 t game that ever was . at? \
Child getting. \
what makes moi\uc0\u383 t women alike ? \
The dark. \
why is a \uc0\u383 a\u383 h-window like a woman in labour ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is full of pains. \
\
\
why is a beau like a buttock of beef? \
\
\
becau\uc0\u383 e he is powdered. \
why is a wain\uc0\u383 cotted room like a reprieve 7 \'bb \
becau\uc0\u383 e it \u383 aves hanging. \
why is a button hole like a cloudy day? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it is overca\u383 t, \
why does a miller wear a white hat ? \
To cover his head. \
why is on axe like a di\uc0\u383 h of coffee ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it \u383 hould be ground before it it is u\u383 ed. \
Why. is a quarrel\uc0\u383 ome man like braun? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he is often collared, \
why is a nobleman like a book? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he has a title. \
why is a good cook like a woman in fa\uc0\u383 hion ? \
\
\
becau\uc0\u383 e \u383 he dre\u383 \u383 es well. \
\
\
why is the moon like a weather-cock ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it often changes. \
\
why is a good coach-hor\uc0\u383 e like a good painter ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he draws well. \
\
\
what is the be\uc0\u383 t trade for men to learn? \
\
\
To learn to die well. \
why is a grave-digger like a waterman? \
becau\uc0\u383 e he handles the \u383 kulls. \
\
\
why is a taylor like a lawyer? \
\
\
becau\uc0\u383 e he deals in \u383 uits. \
why is \uc0\u383 moke of tobacco like wine? \
bccau\uc0\u383 e it comes out of a pipe. \
why is a fine woman like a diamond ring? \
becau\uc0\u383 e \u383 he is \u383 urrounded with \u383 parks, \
what. is that which will tr to-morrow and was Ve | \
\uc0\u383 terday ? \
To- dap. | \
What is that which God never fees, Kings \uc0\u383 eldom \
\uc0\u383 ee, but I often \u383 ee? \
An equal. \
why are thieves impertinent ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e they meddle with that which does not \
coricern them. | 2 oy \
why are the \uc0\u383 tocks like a paper kite? \
becau\uc0\u383 e they are rai\u383 ed, lowered, or kept up by \
wind. \
why do we buy new \uc0\u383 hoes? \
becau\uc0\u383 e no body will give them us. \
where was Adam going when he was in his 3 94h \
year? 1 \
Into his fortieth year. | \
who was it that was begot before his father; born \
be\uc0\u383 ore his mother; and had the maidenhead \
of his grandmother ?- \
Abcl. \
why is Chri\uc0\u383 t- church, Oxford, like che! walls of a \
fortified town ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it has canons. \
why are \uc0\u383 heep in a \u383 old like a good hi\u383 tory ? \
becau\uc0\u383 e they were penn'd. \
why is the city of Bath like a watch? \
becau\uc0\u383 e it depends upon the \u383 pring. \
\
\
41 GESandPROVERBS were in \uc0\u383 ormerages adapted \
\
\
meat, but not to make a meal, or they \uc0\u383 hould have \
' \uc0\u383 omething remarkable in the expre\u383 \u383 ion, \u383 o as to be \
ea\uc0\u383 ily remembered, and u\u383 ed occa\u383 ionally : The u\u383 e \
\'b6 them is as old as the time of King David; and \
as ver\uc0\u383 e is ea\u383 t er got by heart than pro\u383 e, and \
ick \uc0\u383 a\u383 ter in the memory, I have cho\u383 en to give \
them in \uc0\u383 bort rhimes, viz. \
\
\
1 Ia man knew what wou'd be dear, \
He need be a merchant only one Fear- \
2 Lnough' s as good as a fea\uc0\u383 t, . " \
| 'To one that's nct a bea\uc0\u383 t. \
5 3 If things were to be done twice, \
= All wau'd be wi\uc0\u383 e. \
13 4 He that wou'd thrive, \
Mu\uc0\u383 t ri\u383 e by fave; \
He that hath thriven, \
May lie till \uc0\u383 even. \
5 Help, hands; \
For 1 have no lands. \
6 Who buys, | \
Had need of an hundred eyes; \
But one's enough \
For him that \uc0\u383 ells the \u383 tuff. \
7 Wi\uc0\u383 hers, and woulders, \
Are never good hou\uc0\u383 holders. \
8 You may as \uc0\u383 oon 2 0 \
Make a cloak \uc0\u383 ox the moon. \
9 No vice like ararice, \
Like avarice. \
\
to the affairs of life, and counted as \uc0\u383 auce to reli\u383 h \
\
\
\
'The po\uc0\u383 tern door \
Makes thief and whore, \
He giveth twice, \
\
\
That giveth in a trice. \
\
He that once a good name gets, \
May pi\uc0\u383 s abed, and \u383 ay he \u383 weats. \
The heail and feet keep warm, \
\
\
- The re\uc0\u383 t will take no harm. \
\
\
\
He that loves gla\uc0\u383 s without G, \
\
\
Take away L, and that is he. \
\
\
\
Wedlock \
\
Is a padlock. \
\
A nice wife, and a back door, \
Do often make a rich man poor. \
Beggars breed; \
\
\
And rich men feed. \
\
\
wy \
\
One wit bought, \
\
Is worth two for nought. \
\
I \uc0\u383 tout, and thou \u383 tout; | \
\
Who \uc0\u383 hall carry the dirt out? \
\
Great toa\uc0\u383 t, \
\
Small roa\uc0\u383 t, | \
\
He that will cheat at pl: 495 \
\
Will cheat you any way. \
\
He that \uc0\u383 peaks the thing he \u383 hou'd not, \
Sball hear the thing he wou'd not. \
What greater crimez - \
\
Than lo\uc0\u383 s of time? : \
\
Do not tru\uc0\u383 t or contend, \
\
Nor lay wagers, nor lend, \
\
And you'll have peace to yo life's 1. \
Pay what you owe; \
\
And what you're worth you'll know: | \
Leave a je\uc0\u383 t, \
\
When it flea\uc0\u383 es you be\u383 t, \
\
\
Who will not lay up a penny. \
\
Shall never have many. \
\
He that wou'd plea\uc0\u383 e all, and him\u383 elf too, \
Undertakes what none cou'd do. | \
\
He that by the plow wou'd thrive, \
\
Him\uc0\u383 elf mu\u383 t either hold or drive. \
There's nothing agrees worle, \
\
Than a prince's heart, and a beggar's pur\uc0\u383 e, \
An ape's an' ape: a varlet's a varlet, \
Though they be clad in \uc0\u383 ilk or \u383 carlet. \
\
In time of pro\uc0\u383 perity friends will be plenty, \
In time of adverfity not one in twenty. \
\
Who more than he js worth doth \uc0\u383 pend, \
\
He makes a rope his life to end. Wo, \
\
A woman, a \uc0\u383 paniel, and a walnut-tree, \
'Fhe more they're beaten, the better they be. \
\
\
When I did well I heard it never; \
\
\
When I did ill T heard it ever. \
\
It wou'd make \'a9 a man 1 ferateh where it doth not \
itch, 1 \
\
To \uc0\u383 ze a man live poor, to die rich, \
\
He that winketh with one eye, and \uc0\u383 eeth with \
\
\
tiother, \
\
\
I wou'd not tru\uc0\u383 t Him, though he were my \
\
\
brother. \
\
\
Tell me with whom thou goe\uc0\u383 t, \
\
And TI tell thee what thou doe\uc0\u383 t. \
\
A \uc0\u383 hower in July, when the corn begins to fill, \
Is worth a plow of oxen, and all belongs there- }