{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red242\green242\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c96078\c96078\c96078;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
ROLLO    IN    NAPLES, \
\
\
JACOB    ABBOTT. \
\
\
HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
CHAPTER   I. \
THE  VETTURINO. \
\
Mode  of  travelling  in  Italy.  The  vetturino. \
\
IF  ever  you  make  a  journey  into  Italy,  there  is \
one  thing  that  you  will  like  very  much  indeed ; \
and  that  is  the  mode  of  travelling  that  prevails \
in  that  country.  There  are  very  few  railroads \
there ;  and  though  there  are  stage  coaches  on  all \
the  principal  routes,  comparatively  few  people, \
except  the  inhabitants  of  the  country,  travel  in \
them.  Almost  all  who  come  from  foreign  lands \
to  make  journeys  in  Italy  for  pleasure,  take  what \
is  called  a  vetturino. \
\
There  is  no  English  word  for  vetturino,  because \
where  the  English  language  is  spoken,  there  is  no \
such  thing.  The  word  comes  from  the  Italian \
word  vettura,  which  means  a  travelling  carriage, \
and  it  denotes  the  man  that  owns  the  carriage, \
and  drives  it  wherever  the  party  that  employs \
him  wishes  to  go.  Thus  there  is  somewhat  the \
\
(13) \
\
\
14  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Meaning  of  the  word.  The  veltura.  Duties  of  the  vetturino. \
\
same  relation  between  the  Italian  words  vettura \
and  vetturino  that  there  is  between  the  English \
words  chariot  and  charioteer. \
\
The  Italian  vetturino,  then,  in  the  simplest \
English  phrase  that  will  express  it,  is  a  travelling \
carriage  man  ;  that  is,  he  is  a  man  who  keeps  a \
carriage  and  a  team  of  horses,  in  order  to  take \
parties  of  travellers  with  them  on  long  journeys, \
wherever  they  wish  to  go.  Our  word  coachman \
does  not  express  the  idea  at  all.  A  coachman  is \
a  man  employed  by  the  owner  of  a  carriage \
simply  to  drive  it ;  whereas  the  vetturino  is  the \
proprietor  of  his  establishment ;  and  though  he \
generally  drives  it  himself,  still  the  driving  is \
only  a  small  part  of  his  business.  He  might \
employ  another  man  to  go  with  him  and  drive, \
but  he  would  on  that  account  be  none  the  less  the \
vetturino. \
\
The  vetturino  usually  takes  the  entire  charge \
of  the  party,  and  provides  for  them  in  every \
respect, \'97 that  is,  if  they  make  the  arrangement \
with  him  in  that  way,  which  they  generally  -do, \
inasmuch  as,  since  they  do  not,  ordinarily,  know \
the  language  of  the  country,  it  is  much  more \
convenient  for  them  to  arrange  with  him  to  take \
care  of  them  than  to  attempt  to  take  care  of \
themselves.  Accordingly,  in  making  a  jour- \
ney of  several  days,  as,  for  example,  from  Ge- \
\
\
THE  VETTTJRINO.  15 \
\
The  vetturino  takes  care  of  the  hotel  expenses.  Florence. \
\
noa  to  Florence,  from  Florence  to  Rome,  or \
from  Rome  to  Venice,  or  to  Naples,  the  vetturino \
determines  the  length  of  each  day's  journey ;  he \
chooses  the  hotels  where  to  stop,  both  at  noon \
and  for  the  night ;  he  attends  to  the  passports  in \
passing  the  frontiers,  and  also  to  the  examination \
of  the  baggage  at  the  custom  houses ;  and  on \
arriving  at  the  hotels  he  orders  what  the  travel- \
lers require,  and  settles  the  bill  the  next  morning. \
For  all  this  the  travellers  pay  him  one  round \
sum,  which  includes  every  thing.  This  sum  con- \
sists of  a  certain  amount  for  the  carriage  and \
horses,  and  an  additional  amount  of  about  a  dol- \
lar and  a  half  or  a  dollar  and  three  quarters  a \
day,  as  agreed  upon  beforehand,  for  hotel  ex- \
penses on  the  way.  Thus,  by  this  mode  of  trav- \
elling, the  whole  care  is  taken  off  from  the \
traveller's  mind,  and  he  has  nothing  to  do  during \
the  daytime  but  to  sit  in  his  carriage  and  enjoy \
himself,  and  at  night  to  eat,  drink,  sleep,  and \
take  his  comfort  at  the  hotel. \
\
It  was  at  Florence  that  Mr.  George  and  Rollo \
first  commenced  to  travel  with  a  vetturino.  They \
came  to  Florence  by  steamer  and  railway  ;  that \
is,  by  steamer  to  Leghorn,  and  thence  across  the \
country  by  railway.  Florence  is  a  very  pretty \
place,  with  the  blue  and  beautiful  River  Arno \
running  through  the  middle  of  it,  and  ancient \
\
\
ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Paintings  and  statuary  in  Florence.    How  the  people  warm  themselves. \
\
stone  bridges  leading  across  the  river  from  side \
to  side.  The  town  is  filled  with  magnificent \
churches  and  palaces,  built,  some  of  them,  a \
thousand  years  ago,  and  all  so  richly  adorned \
with  sculptures,  paintings,  bronzes,  and  mosaics, \
that  the  whole  world  flock  there  to  see  them. \
People  go  there  chiefly  in  the  winter.  At  that \
season  the  town  is  crowded  with  strangers.  A \
great  many  people,  too,  go  there  in  the  winter  to \
avoid  the  cold  weather  which  prevails  at  that \
time  of  the  year,  in  all  the  more  northerly  coun- \
tries of  Europe. \
\
There  is  so  little  winter  in  Florence  that  few \
of  the  houses  have  any  fireplaces  in  them  except \
in  the  kitchen.  "When  there  comes  a  cold  day, \
the  people  warm  themselves  by  means  of  a  jug  or \
jar  of  earthen  ware,  with  a  handle  passing  over \
across  the  top,  by  which  they  carry  it  about. \
They  fill  these  jars  half  full  of  hot  embers,  and \
so  carry  them  with  them  wherever  they  want  to \
go.  The  women,  when  they  sit  down,  put  the \
jar  under  their  dresses  on  the  floor  or  pavement \
beneath  them,  and  the  men  place  it  right  before \
them  between  their  feet. \
\
You  will  see  market  women  and  flower  girls \
sitting  in  the  corners  of  the  streets  in  the  winter, \
attending  to  their  business,  and  keeping  them- \
selves warm  all  the  time  with  these  little  fire  jars  ; \
\
\
THE   VETTURINO.  17 \
\
Curious  mode  of  warming  a  bed. \
\
and  artists  in  the  palaces  and  picture  galleries, \
each  with  one  of  them  by  his  side,  or  close  be- \
fore him,  while  he  is  at  work  copying  the  works \
of  the  great  masters,  or  making  drawings  from \
the  antique  statues. \
\
There  is  another  very  curious  use  that  the \
people  of  Florence  make  of  these  jars  ;  and  that \
is  they  warm  the  beds  with  them  when  any  body \
is  sick,  so  as  to  require  this  indulgence.  You \
would  think  it  very  difficult  to  warm  a  bed  with \
an  open  jar  filled  with  burning  embers.  The \
way  they  do  it  is  this  :  they  hang  the  jar  in  the \
inside  of  a  sort  of  wooden  cage,  shaped  like  a \
bushel,  basket,  and  about  as  large.  They  turn \
this  cage  upside  down,  and  hang  the  jar  up  in  it \
by  means  of  a  hook  depending  inside.  They \
turn  down  the  bed  clothes  and  put  the  cage  in \
it,  jar  of  coals  and  all.  They  then  put  back  the \
bed  clothes,  and  cover  the  cage  all  up.  They \
leave  it  so  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then, \
carefully  turning  the  clothes  down  again,  they \
take  the  jar  out,  and  the  bed  is  warmed. \
\
But  to  return  to  Mr.  George  and  Kollo.  They \
engaged  a  vetturino  for  the  first  time  at  Florence. \
Mr.  George  had  gone  to  Florence  chiefly  for  the \
purpose  of  examining  the  immense  collections  of \
paintings  and  statuary  which  exist  there.  Rollo \
went,  not  on  account  of  the  paintings  or  stat- \
2 \
\
\
18  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Reason  why  there  are  so  many  works  of  art  in  Italy. \
\
ues,  \'97  for  he  did  not  care  much  about  such  things, \
\'97  but  because  he  liked  to  go  any  where  where  he \
could  see  new  places,  and  be  entertained  by  new \
scenes.  Accordingly,  while  Mr.  George  was  at \
work  in  the  galleries  of  Florence,  studying,  by \
the  help  of  catalogues,  the  famous  specimens  of \
ancient  art,  Rollo  was  usually  rambling  about \
the  streets,  observing  the  manners  and  customs \
of  the  people,  and  watching  the  singular  and  curi- \
ous scenes  that  every  where  met  his  eye. \
\
The  reason  why  there  are  so  many  paintings \
and  sculptures  in  Italy  is  this :  in  the  middle \
ages,  it  was  the  fashion,  in  all  the  central  parts  of \
Europe,  for  the  people  to  spend  almost  all  their \
surplus  money  in  building  and  decorating  churches. \
Indeed,  there  was  then  very  little  else  that  they \
could  do.  At  the  present  time,  people  invest  their \
funds,  as  fast  as  they  accumulate  them,  in  building \
ships  and  railroads,  docks  for  the  storage  of  mer- \
chandise, houses  and  stores  in  cities,  to  let  for  the \
sake  of  the  rent,  and  country  seats,  or  pretty \
private  residences  of  various  kinds,  for  them- \
selves. But  in  the  middle  ages  very  little  could \
be  done  in  the  way  of  investments  like  these. \
There  were  no  railroads,  and  there  was  very \
little  use  for  ships.  There  was  no  profit  to  be \
gained  by  building  houses  and  stores,  for  there \
were  so  many  wars  and  commotions  among  the \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  19 \
\
Safety  of  property  in  the  churches.  The  crime  of  sacrilege. \
\
people  of  the  different  towns  and  kingdoms, \
that  nothing  was  stable  or  safe.  For  the  same \
reason  it  was  useless  for  men  to  spend  their \
money  in  building  and  ornamenting  their  own \
houses,  for  at  the  first  approach  of  an  enemy,  the \
town  in  which  they  lived  was  likely  to  be  sacked, \
and  their  houses,  and  all  the  fine  furniture  which \
they  might  contain,  would  be  burned  or  de- \
stroyed. \
\
But  the  churches  were  safe.  The  people  of  the \
different  countries  had  so  much  veneration  for \
sacred  places,  and  for  every  thing  connected  with \
religion,  that  they  were  afraid  to  touch  or  injure \
any  thing  that  had  been  consecrated  to  a  reli- \
gious use.  To  plunder  a  church,  or  a  convent,  or \
an  abbey,  or  to  do  any  thing  to  injure  or  destroy \
the  property  that  they  contained,  was  regarded \
as  sacrilege  ;  and  sacrilege  they  deemed  a  dread- \
ful crime,  abhorred  by  God  and  man.  Thus,  while \
they  would  burn  and  destroy  hundreds  of  dwell- \
ings without  any  remorse,  and  turn  the  wretched \
inmates  out  at  midnight  into  the  streets  to  die  of \
exposure,  terror,  and  despair,  they  would  stop  at \
once  when  they  came  to  the  church,  afraid  to  harm \
it  in  any  way,  or  to  touch  the  least  thing  that  it \
contained.  Accordingly,  while  every  thing  else \
in  a  conquered  town  was  doomed  to  the  most \
reckless  destruction,  all  that  was  in  the  church, \
\
\
20  ROLLO   ix   NAPLES. \
\
Immense  magnitude  and  costliness  of  the  churches. \
\
\'97  the  most  delicate  paintings,  and  the  most  cost- \
ly gold  and  silver  images  and  utensils  \'97  were  as \
safe  as  if  they  were  surrounded  by  impregna- \
ble castle  walls. \
\
Of  course  these  notions  were  very  mistaken \
ones.  According  to  the  teachings  of  our  Lord \
and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  it  must  be  a  greater  sin \
to  burn  down  the  cottage  of  a  poor  widow,  and \
turn  her  out  at  midnight  into  the  streets  to  die, \
than  to  plunder  for  gain  the  richest  altar  in  the \
world. \
\
From  these  and  various  other  similar  causes,  it \
happened  that,  in  the  middle  ages,  \'97  that  is,  from \
five  hundred  to  a  thousand  years  ago,  \'97  almost \
all  the  great  expenditures  of  money,  in  all  the \
great  cities  and  towns  of  Europe,  were  made  for \
churches.  Sometimes  these  churches  were  so \
large  that  they  were  several  hundred  years  in \
building.  One  generation  would  begin,  another \
would  continue,  and  a  third  would  finish  the \
work  ;  that  is,  provided  the  finishing  work  was \
ever  done.  Great  numbers  of  them  remain  un- \
finished to  the  present  day,  and  always  will  re- \
main so. \
\
It  is  generally,  however,  the  exterior  which  re- \
mains incomplete.     Within  they  are  magnificent \'84 \
beyond    description.     They    are    so    profusely \
adorned  with  altars,  chapels,  crucifixes,  paintings, \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  21 \
\
The  interiors.  The  cathedral  at  Florence.  The  dome. \
\
vessels  of  gold  and  silver,  and  with  sculptures \
and  monuments  of  every  kind,  that  on  entering \
them  one  is  quite  bewildered  with  the  magnifi- \
cence of  the  scene. \
\
There  are  a  great  many  different  altars  where \
divine  service  may  be  performed,  some  arranged \
along  the  sides  of  the  church,  in  the  recesses  be- \
tween the  pillars,  and  others  in  the  transepts, \
and  in  various  little  chapels  opening  here  and \
there  from  the  transepts  and  the  aisles  ;  and  so \
extensive  and  vast  is  the  interior  that  sometimes \
four  or  five  different  congregations  are  engaged \
in  worship  in  different  parts  of  the  church  at  the \
same  time,  without  at  all  disturbing  one  another. \
\
One  of  the  most  celebrated  of  these  great \
churches  is  the  cathedral  at  Florence,  where  Mr. \
George  and  Rollo  were  now  staying.  There  is  a \
representation  of  it  on  the  next  page,  which  will \
give  you  some  idea  of  its  form,  though  it  can  con- \
vey no  conception  of  its  immense  magnitude. \
\
The  dome  that  surmounts  the  centre  of  the \
building  is  the  largest  in  the  world.  It  was  a \
hundred  years  after  the  church  was  commenced \
before  the  dome  was  put  on.  The  dome  is  about \
a  hundred  and  forty  feet  wide  from  side  to  side, \
and  almost  as  high  as  it  is  wide.  It  is  more  than \
a  hundred  and  thirty  feet  high,  which  is  enough \
for  twelve  or  fifteen  stories  of  a  good-sized  house. \
\
\
22  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Some  account  of  the  building  of  the  dome. \
\
And  this  is  the  dome  alone.  The  whole  height \
of  the  church,  from  the  ground  to  the  top  of  the \
cross,  is  nearly  four  hundred  feet.  You  will  get \
a  better  idea  of  how  high  this  is,  if  you  ask  of \
your  father,  or  of  some  one  that  knows,  what  the \
height  is  of  some  tall  steeple  near  where  you  live. \
\
When  the  architect  who  conceived  the  idea  of \
finishing  the  church  by  putting  this  dome  upon  it \
first  proposed  it,  the  other  architects  of  the  town \
declared  that  it  could  not  be  done.  It  was  im- \
possible, they  said,  to  build  so  large  a  dome  on \
the  top  of  so  lofty  a  building.  But  he  insisted \
that  it  was  not  impossible.  He  could  not  only \
build  the  dome  at  that  height,  but  he  could \
first  build  an  octagonal  lantern,  he  said,  on \
the  top  of  the  church,  and  then  build  the  dome \
upon  that,  which  would  carry  the  dome  up  a \
great  deal  higher.  At  last  they  consented  to  let \
him  make  the  attempt ;  and  he  succeeded.  You \
see  the  dome  in  the  engraving,  and  the  octagonal \
lantern  beneath  it.  on  which  it  rests.  The  lan- \
tern is  the  part  which  has  the  round  windows. \
\
You  see  to  the  left  of  the  church,  at  the  farther \
end,  a  tall,  square  tower.  This  is  the  bell  tower. \
There  are  six  bells  in  it.  It  was  designed  to \
have  a  spire  upon  it,  but  the  spire  has  not  yet \
been  built,  and  perhaps  it  never  will  be. \
\
\
THE   VETTURINO.  25 \
\
The  bell  tower.  Statue  of  the  architect. \
\
This  bell  tower  alone  cost  an  enormous  sum  of \
money.  It  is  faced  on  every  side,  as  indeed  the \
church  itself  is,  with  different  colored  marbles, \
and  the  four  walls  of  it,  on  the  outside,  are  so  pro- \
fusely adorned  with  sculptures,  statues,  and  other \
costly  and  elaborate  architectural  decorations, \
that  it  would  take  a  week  to  examine  them  fully \
in  detail. \
\
The  part  of  the  church  which  is  presented  to \
view  in  the  engraving  is  the  end.  The  front \
proper  is  on  a  line  with  the  farther  side  of  the \
bell  tower.  The  engraving  does  not  show  us  the \
length  of  the  edifice  at  all,  except  so  far  as  we \
gain  an  idea  of  it  by  the  long  procession  which \
we  see  at  the  side.  As  I  have  already  said, \
the  length  is  more  than  five  hundred  feet,  which \
is  nearly  half  a  quarter  of  a  mile. \
\
The  putting  on  of  the  dome  was  considered \
the  greatest  achievement  in  the  building  of  the \
church  ;  and  the  architect  who  planned  and  super- \
intended the  work  gained  for  himself  immortal \
honor.  After  his  death  a  statue  of  him  was \
made,  and  placed  in  a  niche  in  the  wall  of  the \
houses  on  one  side  of  the  square,  opposite  the \
dome.  He  is  represented  as  sitting  in  a  chair, \
holding  a  plan  of  the  work  in  his  hand,  and  look- \
ing up  to  see  it  as  it  appeared  completed.  We \
\
\
26  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
How  Mr.  George  and  Hollo  spent  their  time  in  Florence. \
\
can  just  see  this  statue  in  the  foreground  of  the \
picture,  on  the  left. \
\
And  now  I  must  return  to  the  story. \
\
While  Mr.  George  and  Rollo  were  in  Flor- \
ence, Rollo  was  occupied  mainly,  as  I  have  al- \
ready said,  in  rambling  about  the  town,  and \
observing  the  scenes  of  real  and  active  life,  which \
every  where  met  his  view  in  the  streets  and \
squares,  while  Mr.  George  spent  his  time  chief- \
ly in  the  churches,  and  in  the  galleries  of  paint- \
ing and  sculpture,  studying  the  works  of  art. \
One  morning  after  breakfast,  Mr.  George  was \
going  to  the  great  gallery  in  the  palace  of  the \
grand  duke,  to  spend  the  day  there.  Rollo  said \
that  he  would  walk  with  him  a  little  way.  So \
they  walked  together  along  the  street  which  led \
by  the  bank  of  the  river. \
\
"Uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "how  much \
longer  is  it  going  to  take  for  you  to  study  these \
paintings  and  statues  till  you  are  satisfied?" \
\
"  Five  or  ten  years,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
"0  uncle  George  !  "  exclaimed  Rollo  ;  "  I  have \
seen  as  much  of  them  as  /  want  to  see  al- \
ready." \
\
"  You  have  not  seen  one  of  them  yet,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  Not  seen  one  of  them !  "  repeated  Rollo. \
\
"  No,  not  one  of  them,"  replied  Mr.  George. \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  27 \
\
\
Conversation  about  going  to  Rome.  Three  ways. \
\
"  I  don't  know  what  you  mean  by  that,"  said \
Roilo. \
\
"  I'll  show  you  what  I  mean  some  time  or \
other,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  when  you  are  in  one \
of  the  galleries  with  me." \
\
"  I  should  like  to  have  you,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  but \
now  I  really  want  to  know  when  you  are  going \
to  be  ready  to  go  on  towards  Naples.  I'd  rather \
see  Mount  Vesuvius  than  all  the  paintings  in  the \
world,  especially  if  there  is  a  good  blazing  erup- \
tion coming  out  of  it,  and  plenty  of  red-hot  stones." \
\
"  The  first  question  to  be  settled,"  said  Mr. \
George,  "is,  how  we  shall  go." \
\
"  Are  there  more  ways  than  one  ? "  asked \
Rollo. \
\
"Yes,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "there  are  three  or \
four  ways.  We  are  here  at  Florence,  in  the  inte- \
rior of  the  country,  and  Rome  is  also  in  the  inte- \
rior;  but  there  is  a  seaport  on  the  coast  for  each \
city.  So  we  can  go  from  here  to  Leghorn,  which \
is  the  seaport  for  Florence,  by  the  railroad,  and \
there  we  can  take  a  steamboat  and  go  to  Civita \
Vecchia,  which  is  the  seaport  for  Rome.  There \
we  can  land  and  go  up  to  Rome  in  some  sort  of  a \
carriage." \
\
"Hike  that  way,"  said  Rollo.  "I  like  that \
best  of  all.  There  are  a  railroad  and  a  steam- \
boat both  in  it." \
\
\
28  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  malle  post.  Rollo  prefers  the  vetturiuo. \
\
"  Another  way,"  continued  Mr.  George,  "  is, \
we  can  go  by  the  malle  post."* \
\
"  I  should  like  to  go  by  the  malle  post,"  said \
Rollo  ;  "  they  keep  the  horses  on  the  gallop  al- \
most all  the  way." \
\
"  Then  again,"  continued  Mr.  George,  "  if  we \
choose  we  can  engage  a  vetturino." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  there  are  plenty  of  them \
always  standing  out  here  by  the  bridge.  They \
ask  me  almost  every  day,  when  I  go  by,  whether \
I  want  a  carriage.  *  Want  a  carriage,  sir/  they \
say,  '  to  go  to  Rome,  to  Naples,  to  Venice,  to \
Genoa?'" \
\
Here  Rollo  repeated  the  words  of  the  vetturini, \
imitating  the  peculiar  intonations  with  which \
they  spoke,  in  quite  a  skilful  manner :  "  To \
Rome  !  Naples !  Venice !  Nice !  Genoa !  " \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  those  are  the  men." \
\
"  And,  come  to  think  of  it,"  said  Rollo,  "  I  be- \
lieve, after  all,  I  would  rather  go  with  a  vetturi- \
no. We  ride  along  so  pleasantly  day  after  day, \
and  go  through  all  the  towns,  cracking  our  whip, \
and  seeing  so  many  curious  things  all  along  the \
road  side ! " \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  but  there  is  one \
\
*  The  malle  post  is  a  sort  of  despatch  carriage,  that  takes  the \
mails.  It  can  take  also  two  or  three  passengers.  They  change \
horses  very  often  with  the  malle  post,  and  drive  very  fast. \
\
\
THEVETTUEINO.  29 \
\
Further  conversation  on  the  subject. \
\
difficulty.  We  are  only  two,  and  the  carriages \
of  the  vetturini  are  usually  large  enough  for  four \
or  six." \
\
"And  would  not  they  go  for  two?"  asked \
Hollo. \
\
"  0,  yes,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  they  will  go  for \
two  ;  but  then  the  men  must  have  full  price  for \
their  carriage  and  horses,  and  that  makes  it  very \
expensive  for  two." \
\
"  What  do  people  do,  then,"  asked  Rollo, \
"  when  there  are  only  two  to  go  ?  " \
\
"  They  generally  find  some  other  people  that \
want  to  go,"  replied  Mr.  George,  "  and  make  up \
a  party,  and  so  divide  the  expense." \
\
"  And  can't  we  do  that  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  We  do  not  know  any  body  here,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
Rollo  did  not  know  what  to  say  to  this,  and  so \
he  was  silent,  and  walked  along,  thinking  what \
it  was  best  to  do.  Presently,  after  a  moment's \
pause,  he  added,  \'97 \
\
"  I  mean  to  ask  some  of  the  vetturinos  if  they \
have  not  got  a  carriage  for  two." \
\
"  Vetturini  is  the  plural  of  vetturino,  in  Ital- \
ian," said  Mr.  George,  "  and  not  vetturinos." \
\
"  But  I  am  not  speaking  Italian,"  said  Rollo  ; \
"  I  am  speaking  English." \
\
"  True/7  said  Mr.  George. \
\
\
30  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  bridge  across  the  Aruo.  The  mosaic  shops. \
\
At  this  stage  of  the  conversation  Mr.  George \
and  Rollo  arrived  at  the  end  of  the  bridge  across \
the  Arno,  which  Mr.  George  had  to  pass  over  in \
going  to  his  gallery.  This  bridge  is  a  very  an- \
cient one,  and  is  quite  a  curiosity,  as  it  is  built \
massively  of  stone,  and  is  lined  with  a  row  of \
shops  on  each  side,  so  that  in  passing  over  it  you \
would  think  it  was  a  street  instead  of  a  bridge, \
were  it  not  that  the  shops  are  so  small  that  you \
can  look  directly  through  them,  and  see  the  river \
through  the  windows  on  the  back  side. \
\
These  shops  are  occupied  by  jewellers,  who \
keep  for  sale  the  mosaic  pins,  bracelets,  and  ear- \
rings, for  which  Florence  is  so  famous,  and  great \
numbers  of  these  mosaics,  as  well  as  various  other \
kinds  of  jewelry,  are  exposed  to  view  in  little \
show  cases  that  are  arranged  in  a  curious  man- \
ner, on  small  counters  before  the  windows,  so  that \
any  one  can  see  them  all  in  passing  along. \
\
On  reaching  this  bridge,  Rollo  concluded  to \
stop,  and  look  at  the  mosaics,  and  so  his  uncle  left \
him  and  went  on  alone. \
\
As  Rollo  was  standing  at  one  of  the  little \
shop  windows  a  few  minutes  after  his  uncle  had \
left  him,  a  man  dressed  in  a  blue  frock,  and  with \
a  sort  of  woollen  comforter  of  bright  colors \
about  his  neck,  came  up  to  him,  and  asked  him  in \
French  whether  the  party  that  he  belonged  to \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  31 \
\
Rollo  is  accosted  by  a  vetturiiio.  He  makes  an  appointment. \
\
did  not  want  a  carriage  to  go  to  Rome.  Rollo \
perceived  at  once  that  the  man  was  a  vetturino. \
\
"  I  don't  know  but  that  we  do,"  said  he. \
"  Have  you  got  a  carriage  ?  " \
\
"  Yes,"  replied  the  vetturino  ;  "  I  have  got  a \
large  and  very  nice  carriage,  and  four  excellent \
horses." \
\
"  Then  it  won't  do,"  said  Rollo,  "  for  there  are \
only  two  in  our  party,  and  a  large  carriage  and \
four  horses  will  be  more  than  we  need." \
\
"  0,  but  that  will  make  no  difference,"  said  the \
vetturino.  "  You  see  I'm  a  return,  and  I  will \
take  you  about  as  cheap  as  you  can  go  in  a  small \
carriage." \
\
"  For  how  much  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  Why,  my  price  is  three  napoleons  a  day,"  said \
the  vetturino,  "  for  a  full  party  ;  but  as  you  are \
only  two,  I  will  take  you  for  less.  Have  you  got \
a  great  deal  of  baggage  ?  " \
\
"  No  ;  very  little,"  said  Rollo. \
\
After  some  further  conversation  with  the  vet- \
turino, Rollo  concluded  to  make  an  appointment \
with  him  to  come  to  the  hotel  that  evening  and \
see  his  uncle  George. \
\
"  Come  immediately  after  dinner,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  At  what  time  ?  "  asked  the  vetturino. \
\
"  Why,  we  dine  at  half  past  six,  said  Rollo, \
"  and  uncle  George  will  be  through  at  eight." \
\
\
\'a32  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  is  much  pleased.  He  has  found  a  party. \
\
"  Then  I  will  come  at  eight,"  said  the  vet- \
turino. \
\
One  reason  why  Rollo  concluded  to  make  this \
appointment  was,  that  he  particularly  liked  the \
vetturino's  appearance.  He  had  an  open  and  in- \
telligent countenance,  and  his  air  and  bearing \
were  such  as  to  give  Rollo  the  idea  that  he  was  a \
very  good-natured  and  sociable,  as  well  as  capa- \
ble man.  In  answer  to  a  question  from  Rollo,  he \
said  that  his  name  was  Yittorio. \
\
When  Mr.  George  came  home  that  evening,  a \
short  time  before  dinner,  Rollo  told  him  what  he \
had  done. \
\
"  Good! "  said  Mr.  George.  "  We  are  in  luck. \
I  should  not  be  surprised  if  we  should  be  able \
to  fill  his  carriage  for  him.  I  have  found  a \
party." \
\
Mr.  George  further  stated  to  Rollo  that,  in \
rambling  through  the  rooms  of  the  gallery  where \
he  had  been  spending  the  day,  he  had  met  with  a \
lady  of  his  acquaintance  who  was  travelling  with \
two  children  and  a  maid,  and  that  he  had  been \
talking  with  her  about  forming  a  party  to  travel \
together  to  Naples. \
\
"  Are  the  children  girls  or  boys  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  One  of  them  is  a  girl  and  the  other  is  a  boy," \
said  Mr.  George  ;  "  but  the  girl  is  sick." \
\
"Is  she?"  asked  Rollo. \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  33 \
\
Vittorio  comes.  Description  of  his  carriage.  The  coop. \
\
"  At  least  she  has  been  sick,"  said  Mr.  George. \
"  She  has  had  a  fever,  but  now  she  is  slowly  get- \
ting well.  Her  name  is  Rosalie." \
\
"  I  think  that  is  rather  a  sentimental  name," \
said  Rollo. \
\
"They  call  her  Rosie,  sometimes,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  That's  a  little  better,"  said  Rollo,  "  but  not \
much.  And  what  is  her  other  name  ?  " \
\
"  Gray,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
Yittorio  came  at  eight  o'clock  that  evening, \
according  to  appointment.  The  first  thing  that \
Mr.  George  did  was  to  propose  to  go  and  see  his \
carriage.  So  they  all  went  together  to  see  it. \
It  was  in  a  stable  near  by.  Mr.  George  and \
Rollo  were  both  well  pleased  with  the  carriage. \
It  had  four  seats  inside,  like  an  ordinary  coach. \
Besides  these  there  were  two  good  seats  outside, \
under  a  sort  of  canopy  which  came  forward  over \
them  like  a  chaise  top.  In  front  of  these,  and  a \
little  lower  down,  was  the  driver's  seat. \
\
The  inside  of  such  a  coach  is  called  the  interior.* \
The  place  outside,  under  the  chaise  top,  is  called \
the  coupe. f  Rollo  generally  called  it  the  coop. \
\
The  chaise  top  in  front  could  be  turned  back, \
\
*  In  French,  Vinterieur. \
\
t  Pronounced  coopay,  only  the  last  syllable  is  spoken  rather  short. \
\
3 \
\
\
34  HOLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Discussion  with  Vittorio  in  respect  to  the  terms  of  the  contract. \
\
so  as  to  throw  the  two  seats  there  entirely  open. \
In  the  same  manner  the  top  of  the  interior  could \
be  opened,  so  as  to  make  the  carriage  a  barouche. \
\
"  It  is  just  exactly  such  a  carriage  as  we  want," \
said  Rollo,  "  if  Mrs.  Gray  will  only  let  you  and \
me  have  the  coop." \
\
"  We'll  see  about  that,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
Mr.  George  then  proceeded  to  discuss  with \
Yittorio  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  agree- \
ment which  should  be  made  between  them,  in \
case  the  party  should  conclude  to  hire  the  car- \
riage ;  and  after  ascertaining  precisely  what  they \
were,  he  told  Yittorio  that  he  would  decide  the \
next  morning,  and  he  appointed  ten  o'clock  as \
the  time  when  Yittorio  was  to  call  to  get  the \
decision.  Mr.  George  and  Rollo  then  went  back \
to  the  hotel. \
\
"Why  did  not  you  engage  him  at  once?" \
asked  Rollo,  as  they  walked  along.  "It  was \
such  a  good  carriage ! " \
\
"  Because  I  want  first  to  see  what  terms  and \
conditions  I  can  make  with  Mrs.  Gray,"  replied \
Mr.  George. \
\
"  Why  ?  "  asked  Rollo  ;  "  don't  you  think  she \
will  be  willing  to  pay  her  share  ?  " \
\
"  0,  yes,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  She  says  she  is \
willing  to  pay  the  whole,  if  I  will  only  let  her \
go  with  us." \
\
\
THE  VETTURINO.  35 \
\
Mr.  George's  opinion  of  travelling  parties. \
\
"  And  shall  you  let  her  pay  the  whole?"  asked \
Eollo. \
\
"  No,  indeed,"  replied  Mr.  George.  "  I  shall \
let  her  pay  her  share,  which  will  be  just  two \
thirds,  for  she  has  four  in  her  party,  and  we  are \
two." \
\
"  And  so  her  portion  will  be  four  sixths,"  said \
Rollo,  "  and  that  is  the  same  as  two  thirds." \
\
"  Exactly,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
11  So  then  it  is  all  settled,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  About  the  money  it  is,"  replied  Mr.  George  ; \
"  but  that  was  not  what  I  referred  to.  When \
two  parties  form  a  plan  for  travelling  together \
in  the  same  carriage  for  many  days,  it  is  necessary \
to  have  a  very  precise  understanding  beforehand \
about  every  thing,  or  else  in  the  end  they  are \
very  sure  to  quarrel." \
\
"  To  quarrel !  "  repeated  Rollo. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  and  generally  the \
more  intimate  their  friendship  for  each  other  is \
before  they  set  out,  the  more  sure  they  are  to \
quarrel  in  the  end." \
\
"  That's  curious,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  They  begin  by  being  very  polite  to  each \
other,"  continued  Mr.  George  ;  "  but  by  and  by, \
a  thousand  questions  begin  to  come  up,  and  there \
is  nobody  to  decide  them.  For  a  time  each  one \
professes  a  great  readiness  to  yield  to  the  other ; \
\
\
36  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  way  to  avoid  disagreements  in  trayelling  parties. \
\
but  before  long  each  begins  to  think  that  the \
other  assumes  too  much  of  the  direction.  Mrs. \
A.  thinks  that  Mrs.  B.  keeps  the  carriage  too \
much  shut  up,  or  that  she  always  manages  to  have \
the  best  seat ;  and  Mrs.  B.  thinks  that  Mrs.  A. \
takes  the  best  room  too  often  at  .the  hotels  ;  or \
that  she  is  never  ready  at  the  proper  time  ;  or \
that  she  always  manages  to  have  what  she  likes \
at  the  hotels,  without  paying  enough  regard  to \
the  wishes  of  the  rest  of  the  party." \
\
"  Is  that  the  way  they  act  ?  "  asked  Hollo. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  that  is  the  way  ex- \
actly. I  have  heard  the  secret  history  of  a  great \
many  travelling  parties  that  began  very  brightly, \
but  ended  in  heart-burnings,  miffs,  and  all  sorts \
of  troubles.  The  only  way  to  prevent  this  is  to \
have  a  very  definite  and  precise  understanding \
on  all  these  points  before  we  set  out.  And  that \
is  what  I  am  going  to  have  with  Mrs.  Gray." \
\
"  And  suppose  she  won't  come  to  any  agree- \
ment," said  Rollo.  "  She'll  say,  '  La,  it's  no \
matter.  We  shall  not  quarrel.'  " \
\
"  Then  I  won't  go  with  her,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.     37 \
\
The  three  heads  of  expenditure.  The  carriage  hire.         The  board. \
\
\
CHAPTER  II. \
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS. \
\
IN  arranging  for  a  journey  in  Italy  with  a \
vetturino,  there  are  three  separate  classes  of  ex- \
penditure to  be  provided  for.  First,  the  carriage \
and  horses  ;  secondly,  the  board  at  the  hotels \
by  the  way  ;  and  thirdly,  the  buono  manos. \
\
As  to  the  carriage  and  horses,  the  question,  in \
the  case  of  Mr.  George's  party,  was  soon  settled. \
Yittorio  said  that  his  regular  price  was  three \
napoleons  a  day  for  a  full  party.  This  is  about \
twelve  dollars,  and  includes  the  keeping  of  the \
horses,  and  all  the  tolls,  tariffs,  and  way  expenses \
of  every  kind.  Mr.  George  had  ascertained  that \
this  was  about  the  usual  price,  and  he  did  not  ask \
Vittorio  to  take  any  less. \
\
For  the  board  of  the  party  by  the  way,  Yitto- \
rio said  that  they  could  themselves  call  for  what \
they  wanted  at  the  hotels,  and  pay  their  own \
bills,  or  he  would  provide  for  them  all  the  way, \
on  their  paying  him  a  certain  sum  per  day  for \
each  person.  This  last  is  the  usual  plan  adopted \
\
\
38  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Hotel  expenses  to  be  paid  by  the  vetturino. \
\
when  travelling  in  Italy,  for  the  hotel  keepers  are \
very  apt  to  charge  too  much  when  the  travellers \
call  for  and  pay  the  bills  themselves.  Whereas, \
when  the  vetturino  pays,  the  hotel  keepers  are \
much  more  reasonable.  They  are  aware  that  the \
vetturino  knows  what  the  charges  ought  to  be, \
and  they  are  afraid,  if  they  overcharge  him  for \
his  party,  that  then  he  will  take  his  next  party \
to  some  other  hotel. \
\
"And  what  shall  you  give  us,"  asked  Mr. \
George,  in  talking  with  Yittorio  on  this  subject, \
"  if  you  provide  for  us  ?  " \
\
"  In  the  morning,"  replied  Yittorio,  "  before  we \
set  out,  there  will  be  coffee  or  tea,  and  bread  and \
butter,  with  eggs.  Then,  when  we  stop  at  noon, \
you  will  have  a  second  breakfast  of  mutton  chops, \
fried  potatoes,  fried  fish,  omelets,  and  other  such \
things.  Then,  at  night,  when  the  day's  journey \
is  done,  you  will  have  dinner." \
\
"Very  well,"  said  Mr.  George.  "I  should \
think  that  that  might  do.  And  how  much  must \
we  pay  you  ?  " \
\
"  It  used  to  be  eight  francs  a  day,"  said  Yitto- \
rio ;  "  but  the  price  of  every  thing  is  raised,  and \
now  we  cannot  do  it  well  for  less  than  nine  francs. \
I  will  do  it  for  nine  francs  apiece  all  round." \
\
"  But  there  are  two  boys,"  said  Mr.  George. \
"  Don't  you  charge  any  thing  extra  for  boys  ?  " \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND   AGREEMENTS.    39 \
\
The  buono  ruanos.  Explanation  of  the  custom. \
\
"  No,  sir,"  said  Vittorio,  smiling.  He  thought \
at  first  that  Mr.  George  was  going  to  ask  for \
some  abatement  on  account  of  a  portion  of  the \
party  being  young.  "  No,  sir  ;  we  don't  charge \
any  thing  extra  for  them." \
\
"  You  would  charge  extra  for  them,  I  think," \
said  Mr.  George,  "  if  you  only  knew  how  much \
they  can  eat." \
\
Vittorio  smiled  and  said  that  if  the  party \
would  pay  nine  francs  apiece  all  round,  he  should \
be  satisfied,  without  asking  for  any  thing  extra  on \
account  of  the  boys. \
\
The  third  item  of  expense  in  an  Italian  journey \
consists  of  the  buono  manos.  In  Italy,  and  in- \
deed generally  in  Europe,  though  especially  in \
Italy,  nobody,  in  rendering  you  a  service,  is  satis- \
fied with  receiving  merely  what  you  agreed  to \
pay  for  the  service.  Every  one  expects  some- \
thing over  at  the  end,  as  a  token  of  your  satis- \
faction with  him.  If  you  employ  a  guide  in  a \
town  to  show  you  about  to  the  places  and  things \
that  are  curious  there,  under  an  agreement  that \
he  is  to  have  a  dollar  a  day,  he  is  not  satisfied  at \
night  if  you  pay  him  merely  a  dollar.  He  ex- \
pects twenty  cents  or  a  quarter  of  a  dollar  over, \
as  a  buono  mono,  as  it  is  called.  This  is  the  un- \
derstanding on  which  the  bargain  is  made. \
\
In  the  same  manner,  when  you  pay  your  bill  at \
\
\
40  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Impatient  travellers.  Hollo  to  take  charge  of  the  bnono \
\
the  hotel,  the  waiter  expects  you  to  give  him  a \
buono  mano.  If  any  body  renders  the  vetturino \
a  service  along  the  road,  it  is  the  vetturino  who \
pays  them,  because  it  is  in  the  agreement  that  he \
is  to  pay  the  way  expenses ;  but  then,  after  get- \
ting their  pay  from  him,  and  also  his  buono  mano, \
they  generally  come  to  the  carriage  and  ask  for \
another  buono  mano  from  the  party  of  travellers. \
Some  travellers  get  vexed  and  out  of  patience \
with  this  system,  and  always  give,  if  they  give  at \
all,  with  scowling  looks  and  moody  mutterings. \
Others,  seeing  how  poor  all  the  people  are,  and \
how  hard  it  is  for  them  to  get  their  living,  are \
very  willing  to  pay,  especially  as  it  is  generally \
only  a  few  cents  in  each  case  that  is  required. \
Still,  unless  the  traveller  understands  the  system, \
and  prepares  himself  beforehand  with  a  stock  of \
small  change,  the  buono  mano  business  gives  him \
a  good  deal  of  trouble.  If  he  does  so  provide \
himself,  and  if  he  falls  into  the  custom  good  na- \
turedly,  as  one  of  the  established  usages  of  the \
country,  which  is  moreover  not  without  its  ad- \
vantages, it  becomes  a  source  of  pleasure  to \
him  to  pay  the  poor  fellows  their  expected \
fees. \
\
"  Rollo,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  I  am  going  to  put \
the  whole  business  of  the  buono  manos  into  your \
hands." \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.     41 \
\
Vittorio  makes  a  calculation  of  the  amount  required. \
\
"  Good ! "  said  Rollo.  "  I'll  take  the  business \
if  you  will  only  give  me  the  money." \
\
"  How  much  will  it  require,  Vittorio,  for  each \
day,  to  do  the  thing  up  handsomely  ?  "  asked  Mr. \
George. \
\
Yittorio  immediately  began  to  make  a  calcula- \
tion. He  reckoned  in  pauls,  the  money  which  is \
used  most  in  the  central  parts  of  Italy.  The \
substance  of  his  calculation  was,  that  for  the \
whole  party  about  half  a  dollar  would  be  a \
proper  sum  to  pay  to  the  domestic  at  the  hotel \
where  they  stopped  for  the  night,  and  a  quarter \
of  a  dollar  or  less  at  noon.  Then  there  were \
chambermaids,  ostlers,  and  drivers  of  extra  horses \
or  oxen  to  help  up  the  long  hills,  all  of  whom \
would  like  a  small  buono  mano.  This  would \
bring  the  amount  up  to  about  six  francs,  or  a \
dollar  and  a  quarter  a  day,  on  the  plan  of  doing \
the  thing  up  handsomely,  as  Mr.  George  had \
proposed. \
\
"  You  mean  to  be  generous  with  them,  uncle \
George,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  In  travelling  in \
Italy,  pay  out  liberally  to  every  body  that  renders \
you  any  service,  but  not  a  sou  to  beggars.  That's \
my  rule." \
\
"  Besides,"  he  continued,  "  it  is  good  policy  for \
us  to  be  generous  in  this  case,  for  Mrs.  Gray  will \
\
\
12  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  puts  Hollo  in  funds.  Difficulties. \
\
pay  two  thirds  of  the  money.  So  that  you  and \
I,  sitting  in  the  coop,  as  you  call  it,  will  have  all \
the  pleasure  of  the  generosity,  with  only  one \
third  of  the  expense  of  it." \
\
While  Mr.  George  was  saying  this,  he  took \
his  wallet  out  of  his  pocket,  and  opened  to  the \
compartment  of  it  which  contained  napoleons. \
\
"  Let  us  see,"  said  he  ;  "  we  shall  be  ten  days \
on  the  way  in  going  to  Naples,  and  Sunday \
makes  eleven.  Six  francs  a  day  for  eleven  days \
makes  sixty-six  francs." \
\
So  saying,  he  took  out  three  gold  napoleons, \
for  the  sixty  francs,  and  six  francs  in  silver,  and \
handing  the  whole  to  Rollo,  said,  "  There's  the \
money." \
\
"  But,  uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "  I  can't  pay \
the  buono  manos  in  gold." \
\
"  No,"  said  Mr.  George ;  "  you  must  get  the \
money  changed,  of  course." \
\
"  And  what  shall  I  get  it  changed  into  ?  "  asked \
Rollo. \
\
"  I  don't  know,  I'm  sure,"  said  Mr.  George. \
"  That's  for  you  to  find  out.  We  have  three  dif- \
ferent kinds  of  currency  between  here  and  Na- \
ples. We  are  now  in  Tuscany.  After  we  get \
through  Tuscany  we  come  into  the  Roman  states, \
and  after  we  get  through  the  Roman  states  we \
shall  come  into  the  kingdom  of  the  two  Sicilies, \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.  43 \
\
Arrangement  made  in  respect  to  the  hotel  bills. \
\
where  Naples  is.  You  will  require  different \
money  in  all  these  countries,  and  you  must  look \
out  and  not  have  any  left  over,  or  at  least  very \
little,  when  you  cross  the  frontiers." \
\
"But  how  shall  I  manage  that?"  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  /  don't  know,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  any  more \
than  you  do.  If  I  had  it  to  do,  I  should  try  to \
find  out.  But  that  is  your  affair,  not  mine.  You \
said  that  if  I  would  give  you  the  money  you \
would  take  the  whole  business  of  the  buono  ma- \
nos  off  my  hands.  I  must  go  now  and  see  about \
my  arrangement  with  Mrs.  Gray." \
\
"  Well,"  said  Rollo,  "  I'll  find  out  what  to  do." \
\
Thus  the  buono  mano  question  was  disposed  of. \
\
As  to  the  board,  Mr.  George  made  a  verbal \
agreement  with  Yittorio  that  he  would  pay  fifty- \
four  francs  a  day  for  the  whole  party,  and  that,  in \
consideration  of  that  sum,  Yittorio  was  to  pro- \
vide board  and  lodging  for  them  all,  at  the  best \
hotels,  and  in  the  best  style.  He  paid  for  five \
days  in  advance.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  the \
party  were  to  be  at  liberty  either  to  continue  the \
system  at  the  same  rate,  or  to  abandon  it,  and \
pay  the  bills  at  the  hotels  themselves. \
\
In  respect  to  the  carriage  and  horses,  Yittorio \
brought  him  an  agreement,  filled  up  from  a  print- \
ed form,  which  he  and  Yittorio  signed  in  dupli- \
cate. It  was  as  follows.  There  was  a  picture \
\
\
44 \
\
\
ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
The  contract  with  Yittorio. \
\
\
of  a  carriage  and  horses  at  the  head  of  it.  I \
give  you  the  document  in  the  original  French. \
If  you  are  studying  French  yourself,  you  can  read \
it.  If  not,  you  must  ask  some  one  to  translate \
it  for  you,  if  you  wish  to  know  what  it  all  means. \
\
YlTTOKIO    GONSALVI,   VOITURIER. \
\
\
FLORENCE,  le  22  Mars,  1857. \
\
Par  la  pre*sente  Venture,  faite  a  double  origi- \
nal, pour  valoir  et  pour  \'a3tre  strictement  obser- \
ve*e,  comme  de  droit,  par  les  parties  contrac- \
tantes,  a  e'te'  fixe,  et  convenu  ce  qui  suit. \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.  45 \
\
Details  of  the  contract. \
\
Le  proprie'taire  de  voiture,  Gonsalvi,  domicile \
a  Rome,  promet  et  s'oblige  de  servir  Monsieur \
George  Holiday  et  sa  suite  dans  le  voyage  qu'il \
veut  entreprendre  de  Florence  a  Napoli,  par  la \
voie  de  Arezzo,  Perugia,  Rome,  et  Terracina,  et \
\'a3tre  conduit  par  un  bon  voiturier,  pour  le  prix \
convenu  de  trois  cents  francs,  pour  la  voiture  et \
les  quatre  chevaux. \
\
Moyennant  ce  paiement,  qui  s'effectuera \
moiti6  avant  de  partir,  moiti\'a3  a  Napoli,  le  pro- \
prietaire  de  voiture,  ou  son  conducteur  de'le'gue', \
est  tenu  des  obligations  ci-apres  designe'es. \
\
Tous  les  frais  oceasionne's  pour  le  passage  des \
fleuves,  rivieres,  ponts,  et  montagnes,  ainsi  que \
ceux  des  barrieres,  seront  a  la  charge  du  voi- \
turier conducteur. \
\
L'etrenne  d'usage  a  donner  au  voiturier  con- \
ducteur sera  selon  son  bon  service. \
\
Le  dit  voyage  sera  fait  dans  dix  jours  complets. \
\
Le  depart  de  Florence  est  fix6  dans  le  journde \
du  23  courant,  a  onze  heures  matin. \
\
Pour  tous  les  jours  en  sus,  qu'il  plairait  a  dit \
Monsieur  Holiday  de  s'arreter  dans  une  ville, \
ou  qu'il  y  fiit  forcd  par  des  imprevues,  il  est \
convenu  qu'il  payera  cinq  francs  par  jour  par \
cheval  pour  la  nourriture  des  chevaux. \
\
Le  voiturier  devra  constamment  descendre \
dans  de  bonnes  auberges,  et  partira  tons  les  ma- \
\
\
46  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  accedes  to  Mr.  George's  proposal. \
\
tins  de  bonne  heure,  pour  arriver  tous  les  soirs \
avant  la  nuit  a  Fauberge  ou  Ton  devra  coucher. \
Et  pour  1'observance  des  conditions  ci-dessus \
mentionne'es,  les  parties  interessdes  Font  volon- \
tairement  signe'e. \
\
GEORGE  HOLIDAY, \
\
VlTTORIO    GONSALVI. \
\
The  agreement  which  Mr.  George  made  with \
Mrs.  Gray  was  not  so  difficult  to  understand. \
Mrs.  Gray  did  not,  as  Rollo  had  predicted,  ap- \
pear unwilling  to  make  a  definite  arrangement  in \
respect  to  the  respective  privileges  and  rights \
of  the  various  members  of  the  party  in  the  car- \
riage and  at  the  hotels.  She  was  a  very  sensi- \
ble woman,  and  she  saw  the  propriety  of  Mr. \
George's  suggestion  at  once.  Mr.  George  at- \
tributed the  necessity  of  it,  in  part,  to  there  be- \
ing so  many  children  in  the  party. \
\
"  When  there  are  children,"  said  he,  "  we  must \
have  system  and  a  routine." \
\
"  That  is  very  true,"  said  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  And  the  more  formal  and  precise  the  ar- \
rangement is,  the  better,"  said  Mr.  George. \
"'  It  amuses  them,  and  occupies  their  minds,  to \
watch  the  operation  of  it." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  I  have  no  doubt  of  it." \
\
"  Then,"  said   Mr.   George,  "  I  will  draw  up \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.     47 \
\
Articles  of  agreement  propo.\'abed  by  Mr.  George. \
\
some  articles  of  agreement,  and  if  you  approve \
of  them,  Rosie  shall  make  a  copy  of  them.  Ro- \
sie  shall  keep  the  copy,  too,  after  she  has  made  it, \
and  shall  see  that  the  rules  are  all  observed." \
\
"  But  what  shall  I  do,"  said  Rosie,  "  if  any \
body  breaks  any  of  the  rules  ?  " \
\
"  Then  they  must  be  punished,"  said  Mr. \
George.  "  You  shall  determine  what  the  punish- \
ment shall  be,  and  I  will  see  that  it  is  inflicted." \
\
So  Mr.  George  drew  up  a  set  of  rules ;  but \
before  proposing  them  to  Mrs.  Gray  and  her  chil- \
dren, he  read  them  to  Rollo.  He  read  as  fol- \
lows :  \'97 \
\
I. \
\
The  interior  of  the  carriage,  all  the  way,  shall \
belong  to  Mrs.  Gray  and  her  family,  and  the \
coupe  to  Mr.  George  and  Rollo.  Mr.  George \
or  Rollo  may,  perhaps,  sometimes  ride  inside  ; \
but  if  they  do  so,  it  is  to  be  understood  that  they \
ride  there  as  the  guests  of  Mrs.  Gray  ;  and  in  the \
same  manner,  if  at  any  time  any  of  Mrs.  Gray's \
party  ride  outside,  it  will  be  as  the  guests  of  Mr. \
George  and  Rollo. \
\
"  Good ! "  said  Rollo.  "  I  like  that  regulation \
very  much.  I  shall  not  want  to  get  inside  very \
often." \
\
"  You  may  sometimes  wish  to  invite  Rosie  to \
\
\
48  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  seats  in  the  carriage.  Distribution  of  beds  at  the  hotels. \
\
take  your  place  outside,  when  it  is  very  pleasant, \
and  you  take  her  place  inside,"  suggested  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  No,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  there  will  be  room  outside \
for  her  and  me  too.  She  can  sit  right  between \
you  and  me." \
\
"  And,  perhaps,  sometimes  I  may  invite  Rosie \
and  her  brother  to  come  outside  and  ride  with \
you,  while  I  go  inside  with  Mrs.  Gray,"  added \
Mr.  George. \
\
"  That  will  be  a  good  plan,"  said  Rollo.  "  But \
now  what  is  the  second  rule  ?  " \
\
n. \
\
On  arriving  at  a  hotel  for  the  night,  Mrs.  Gray \
is  to  take  her  choice  first  of  all  the  rooms  shown, \
for  herself  and  Rosie.  Then  from  the  other \
rooms  Mr.  George  is  to  choose  the  bed  that \
he  will  sleep  in.  Then  the  two  boys  are  to \
choose  from  the  beds  that  are  left,  each  to  have \
the  first  choice  alternately,  beginning  with  Josie. \
\
"  Why  should  Josie  begin  ?  "  asked  Rollo.  "  I \
am  the  oldest." \
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  but  it  is  of  no \
consequence  at  all  which  begins,  and  as  we  are \
drawing  up  the  rules,  it  is  polite  and  proper  to \
give  Josie  the  precedence  in  such  a  point." \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.     49 \
\
Time  for  setting  out  in  the  morning. \
\
"  Very  well,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  go  on.  How  about \
Susannah?" \
\
"  0,  it  is  not  necessary  to  make  any  rule  about \
Susannah,"  replied  Mr.  George.  "  I  suppose  that \
Mrs.  Gray  will  take  her  into  her  room,  if  there \
is  a  spare  bed  there.  If  not,  they  must  make \
some  other  arrangement  for  her." \
\
in. \
\
Every  evening  before  the  party  separate  for \
the  night,  Mrs.  Gray  shall  decide  at  what  hour \
we  shall  set  off  the  next  morning,  and  also  at \
what  hour  we  shall  breakfast,  after  first  hearing \
what  Vittorio's  opinion  is  as  to  the  best  time  for \
setting  out. \
\
"  Why  can't  we  have  a  fixed  time  for  setting \
out  every  day?  "  asked  Rollo,  "  and  agree  about \
it  once  for  all  beforehand." \
\
"  Because  we  have  different  distances  to  go  on \
different  days,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  so  that  some- \
times we  shall  have  to  set  out  much  earlier  than \
will  be  necessary  at  other  times." \
\
"  Then  why  should  not  we  consult  together  as \
to  the  time?"  asked  Rollo.  "I  don't  see  any \
reason  for  leaving  it  altogether  to  one  of  the \
party." \
\
"  Why,  you  see  that  Mrs.  Gray  is  a  lady,"  re- \
4 \
\
\
50  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Tardinesses.  Fines  to  be  paid  by  the  delinquents. \
\
plied  Mr.  George,  "  and  it  takes  a  lady  longer \
to  dress  and  get  ready  than  men.  Besides,  she \
has  two  children  to  look  after." \
\
"  And  Susannah  to  help  her,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  still  it  seems \
proper  that  the  time  for  setting  out  should  be \
fixed  by  the  lady,  \'97  of  course,  after  hearing \
what  the  vetturino  has  to  say." \
\
"  I  think  so  too,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  so  go  on." \
\
IV. \
\
Any  person  who  is  not  ready  to  sit  down  to \
breakfast  at  the  time  which  shall  have  been  ap- \
pointed by  Mrs.  Gray  the  evening  before,  or  who \
shall  not  be  ready  to  enter  the  carriage  at  the \
time  appointed,  shall  pay  a  fine,  except  in  the \
case  hereinafter  provided  for.  If  the  person  so \
behindhand  is  one  of  the  children,  the  fine  shall \
be  two  cents,  or  the  value  thereof  in  the  curren- \
cy of  the  country  where  we  may  chance  to  be ; \
and  if  it  is  one  of  the  grown  persons,  the  fine \
shall  be  three  times  that  amount,  that  is,  six \
cents. \
\
"Yes;  but  suppose  we  don't  wake  up?  "  sug- \
gested Rollo. \
\
"  That  contingency  is  provided  for  in  the  next \
article,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.     51 \
\
Mr.  George  to  wake  the  party  up.  No  excuses  to  be  received. \
\
V. \
\
It  shall  be  Mr.  George's  duty  to  knock  at  all \
the  bedroom  doors  every  morning,  three  quarters \
of  an  hour  before  the  time  fixed  for  breakfast ; \
and  if  he  fails  to  do  so,  then  he  shall  pay  all  the \
fines  for  tardiness  that  may  be  incurred  that \
morning  by  any  of  the  party. \
\
"  Very  good !  "  said  Rollo. \
\
\
VI. \
\
It  shall  be  Rosie's  duty  to  decide  whether  or \
not  any  persons  are  tardy  any  morning  ;  and  her \
mother's  watch  shall  be  the  standard  of  time. \
Her  decisions  shall  be  without  appeal ;  and  no \
excuses  whatever  shall  be  heard,  nor  shall  there \
be  any  release  from  the  fine,  except  in  the  case  of \
a  failure  of  Mr.  George  to  knock  at  the  doors, \
as  hereinbefore  provided. \
\
"  But  we  might  some  of  us  have  a  good  excuse \
some  time,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George ;  "  we  doubtless \
shall.  But  if  we  go  upon  the  plan  of  admitting \
excuses,  then  there  will  be  a  long  debate  every \
morning,  on  the  question  whether  the  excuses  are \
good  or  not,  which  will  cause  a  great  deal  of \
\
\
52  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Josie  treasurer.  No  complaints  to  be  made. \
\
trouble.     It  is  better  for  us  to  pay  the  fine  at \
once.     It  is  not  much,  you  know." \
"  Well,"  said  Rollo,  "  go  on." \
\
VII. \
\
Josie  is  hereby  appointed  treasurer,  to  collect \
and  keep  the  fines. \
\
"  And  what  is  to  be  done  with  the  money  ?  " \
asked  Rollo. \
"  You  will  see,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
vm. \
\
Any  one  of  the  party  who  shall  at  any  time \
make  complaint  of  any  thing  in  respect  to  the  car- \
riage, or  the  riding  during  the  day,  or  in  respect \
to  the  food  provided  at  the  hotels,  or  the  rooms, \
or  the  beds,  when  we  stop  for  the  night,  except \
when  such  complaint  relates  to  an  evil  which  may \
be  remedied,  and  is  made  with  a  view  to  having \
it  remedied,  shall  be  fined  one  cent,  or  the  value \
thereof  in  the  currency  of  the  country.  Rosie \
is  to  be  the  sole  judge  of  the  infractions  of  this \
rule,  and  is  to  impose  the  fine,  while  Josie,  as  be- \
fore, is  to  collect  and  keep  the  money. \
\
"I  wish  you  would  make  me  the  treasurer," \
said  Rollo. \
\
\
CONTRACTS  AND  AGREEMENTS.   53 \
\
Appropriation  of  the  fine  money.  A  verbal  correction. \
\
"  No,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  you  have  the  care \
of  the  buono  mano  fund.  Josie  shall  be  treasurer \
for  the  fines." \
\
"  Very  well,"  said  Rollo. \
\
IX. \
\
On  the  arrival  of  the  party  at  Naples,  the \
amount  of  the  fine  money  shall  be  expended  in \
the  famous  Neapolitan  confectionery,  and  shall  be \
divided  equally  among  the  three  children. \
\
"  Good  I  "  said  Rollo.  "But,  uncle  George,  I \
don't  think  you  ought  to  call  us  children  exactly. \
We  are  almost  all  of  us  twelve  or  thirteen." \
\
"True,"  said  Mr.  George,  "you  are  not  chil- \
dren ;  but  what  can  I  call  you  to  distinguish  you \
from  the  grown  persons  of  the  party.  The  reg- \
ular and  proper  designation  for  persons  under \
age,  in  a  legal  document,  is  infants." \
\
"  Hoh !  "  said  Rollo,  "  that  is  worse  than  chil- \
dren." \
\
"  I  might  call  you  the  young  persons,  or  the \
junior  members  of  the  party." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rollo,  "  that  will  be  better  ;  the \
junior  members  of  the  party." \
\
So  it  was  agreed  to  strike  out  the  word  children \
wherever  it  occurred  in  the  document,  and  insert \
in  lieu  of  it  the  phrase  junior  members  of  the \
party. \
\
\
54  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  document  signed.          Arrangements  for  setting  oat  the  next  day. \
\
With  this  correction  the  document  was  read \
to  Mrs.  Gray  in  the  hearing  of  Rosie  and  Josie. \
They  all  approved  it  in  every  respect.  The \
draught  was  then  given  to  Rosie  in  order  that  she \
might  make  a  fair  copy  of  it.  When  the  copy  was \
made,  the  nine  rules  were  read  again  in  the  hear- \
ing of  the  whole  party,  and  all  agreed  to  abide \
by  them. \
\
Thus  the  arrangements  for  the  journey  were \
complete ;  and  Mrs.  Gray,  after  learning  from \
Vittorio  that  the  first  day's  journey  would  not  be \
long,  and  that  it  would  answer  to  set  out  at  any \
time  before  noon,  fixed  the  hour  for  departure  at \
eleven  o'clock.  Vittorio  said  he  would  be  at  the \
door  half  an  hour  before,  in  order  to  have  time \
to  load  the  baggage. \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  57 \
\
Progress  of  the  journey.  The  first  fine.  Arezzo. \
\
\
CHAPTER  III. \
THE  JOURNEY. \
\
THE  journey  from  Florence  to  Naples,  as \
planned  and  provided  for  by  the  contracts  and \
agreements  described  in  the  last  chapter,  was \
prosecuted  from  day  to  day,  until  its  completion, \
in  a  very  successful  and  prosperous  manner.  The \
various  contingencies  likely  to  occur  having  been \
foreseen  and  provided  for  by  the  contract  and  the \
rules,  every  thing  worked  smoothly  and  well,  and \
none  of  those  discussions,  disagreements,  and \
misunderstandings  occurred,  which  so  often  mar \
the  pleasure  of  parties  travelling  together  in  one \
company  for  many  days. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  was  fined  for  not  being  ready  for \
breakfast  at  the  the  time  appointed,  on  the  very \
first  morning  after  leaving  Florence.  It  was  at \
a  place  called  Arezzo.  The  time  appointed  for \
the  breakfast  was  at  seven  o'clock.  Mr.  George \
knocked  at  all  the  doors  a  little  before  quarter \
past  six.  About  quarter  before  seven  the  two  boys \
came  into  the  breakfast  room,  and  soon  afterwards \
\
\
58  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  children  are  very  desirous  that  Mrs.  Gray  should  be  tardy. \
\
Mr.  George  and  Rosie  came.  The  breakfast  was \
brought  in  and  set  upon  the  table  by  the  waiter  a \
few  minutes  before  seven.  The  boys  immediately \
began  to  set  the  chairs  round. \
\
"  Quick  !  quick  !  "  said  Josie.  "  Let  us  sit \
down  quick,  and  mother  will  be  tardy,  and  have \
to  pay  a  fine." \
\
"  Ah,  but  it  does  not  go  by  our  sitting  down," \
said  Rollo.  "  It  goes  by  Mrs.  Gray's  watch." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rosie  ;  "  I  have  got  the  watch. \
It  wants  a  minute  of  the  time  now." \
\
"  I  hope  she  won't  come,"  said  Josie. \
\
"  She  will  come,"  said  Rosie.  "  She  has  been \
almost  ready  for  some  time." \
\
The  children  all  took  their  scats  at  the  table. \
Rosie  had  the  watch  before  her,  and  was  closely \
observing  the  minute  hand.  Mr.  George,  who \
thought  it  not  polite  that  he  should  take  his  seat \
before  Mrs.  Gray  came,  stood  waiting  by  the \
fire.  It  was  a  cool  morning,  and  so  Mr.  George \
had  made  a  little  fire  when  he  first  got  up. \
\
Notwithstanding  Rosie's  prediction,  Mrs.  Gray \
did  not  come.  Rosie  watched  the  second  hand, \
and  as  soon  as  it  passed  the  mark  she  said, \'97 \
\
"  There !  it  is  seven  o'clock  ;  now  mother  is \
tardy." \
\
Josie  clapped  his  hands,  and  even  Rollo  looked \
quite  pleased.  In  about  two  minutes  the  door  of \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  59 \
\
Mrs.  Gray  is  really  too  late.  Her  excuse  not  received. \
\
Mrs.  Gray's  bedroom  opened,  and  Mrs.  Gray \
appeared. \
\
"  You  are  too  late,  mother !  "  said  Josie,  in  an \
exulting  tone.  "  You  are  too  late !  " \
\
"  It  does  not  depend  on  you  to  decide,"  said \
Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  it  depends  upon  Rosie." \
\
"  Well,  mother,  you  are  really  too  late,"  said \
Rosie.  "  You  are  two  minutes  beyond  the  time, \
or  a  minute  and  a  half,  at  the  very  least,  when \
you  opened  the  door.  So  you  must  pay  the  fine." \
\
"  Yes  ;  and  you  must  pay  it  to  me,"  said  Josie. \
"  I  am  the  treasurer." \
\
"  But  you  have  not  heard  my  excuse  yet,"  said \
Mrs.  Gray.  "  You  don't  know  but  that  I  have \
got  a  good  excuse." \
\
"  Ah,  that  makes  no  difference,  mother,"  said \
Josie.  "  Excuses  go  for  nothing." \
\
"Indeed!"  said  Mrs.  Gray.  "Is  that  the \
agreement?  Let  us  see,  Rosie." \
\
So  Rosie  took  the  paper  out  of  her  pocket,  and \
with  Josie's  assistance,  \'97  who  looked  over  very \
eagerly  all  the  time, \'97 she  found  the  passage,  and \
Josie  read  as  follows,  speaking  the  words  in  a \
very  distinct  and  emphatic  manner  :  \'97 \
\
" '  No  excuses  shall  be  heard,  nor  shall  there  be \
any  release  from  the  fine,  except/  and  so  forth, \
and  so  forth.  So  you  see,  mother,  you  can't  be \
excused." \
\
\
60  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
She  pays  her  line.  Explanation  of  the  case. \
\
"  I  see,"  said  Mrs.  Gray.  "  The  language  is \
very  plain  indeed  ;  so  111  pay  the  fine.  I  pay  it \
very  willingly.  It  would  be  very  dishonorable  in \
any  of  us,  after  having  deliberately  adopted  the \
rules,  to  manifest  any  unwillingness  to  abide  by \
them." \
\
So  Mrs.  Gray  took  out  of  her  pocket  a  small \
silver  coin  called  a  paul,  which  Mr.  George  said \
was  a  good  deal  more  than  six  cents,  but  which \
she  said  was  near  enough  to  the  amount  of  the \
fine,  and  paid  it  into  Josie's  hands.  Josie  put  it \
safely  into  a  certain  compartment  of  his  wallet, \
which  he  had  set  apart  for  the  purpose. \
\
The  truth  was,  that  Mrs.  Gray  contrived  to  be \
tardy  that  morning  on  purpose,  in  order  to  set  an \
example  of  exact  and  cheerful  submission  to  the \
law,  and  to  give  a  practical  illustration,  in  her \
own  case,  of  the  strictness  with  which,  when  once \
enacted,  such  laws  ought  to  be  enforced.  She \
knew  very  well  that  if  she  had  once  submit- \
ted to  be  fined,  when  she  was  only  a  minute  and \
a  half  behind  the  time,  and  also  to  be  refused  a \
hearing  for  her  excuse,  nobody  could  afterwards \
expect  any  indulgence.  The  effect  produced  was \
just  what  she  had  intended,  and  the  whole  party \
were  extremely  punctual  all  the  way.  There \
were  only  a  few  fines  assessed,  and  they  were  all \
paid  at  once,  without  any  objection. \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  61 \
\
Tuscany.  The  braiding  of  Tuscan  straw.  The  Papal  States. \
\
The  road  lay  for  a  day  through  a  small  coun- \
try called  Tuscany.  The  scenery  was  very  beau- \
tiful. Although  it  was  so  early  in  the  spring, \
the  wheat  fields  were  every  where  very  green, \
and  in  the  hedges,  and  along  the  banks  by  the \
road  side,  multitudes  of  flowers  were  blooming. \
For  a  considerable  portion  of  the  way,  where \
our  travellers  passed,  the  occupation  of  the  in- \
habitants was  that  of  braiding  straw  for  bonnets  ; \
and  here  every  body  seemed  to  be  braiding.  In \
the  streets  of  the  villages,  at  the  doors  of  the \
houses,  and  all  along  the  roads  every  where,  men, \
women,  and  children  were  to  be  seen  standing  in \
little  groups,  or  walking  about  together  in  the \
sun,  braiding  the  straw  with  a  rapid  motion, \
like  that  of  knitting.  They  had  a  little  bundle \
of  prepared  straw,  at  their  side,  and  the  braid \
which  they  had  made  hung  rolled  up  in  a  coil \
before  them.  They  looked  contented  and  happy \
at  their  work,  so  that  the  scene  was  a  very \
pleasing,  as  well  as  a  very  curious  one  to  see. \
\
After  leaving  the  frontiers  of  Tuscany,  the \
party  entered  the  Papal  States  \'97  a  country  oc- \
cupying the  centre  of  Italy,  with  Rome  for  the \
capital  of  it.  The  Papal  States  are  so  called  be- \
cause they  are  under  the  dominion  of  the  pope. \
Of  course  the  Catholic  religion  reigns  here  in \
absolute  supremacy. \
\
\
62  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Emblems  of  the  crucifixion  by  the  wayside. \
\
While  passing  through  this  country,  the  chil- \
dren, or  rather,  as  Rollo  would  wish  to  have  it \
expressed,  the  young  people  of  the  party,  were \
very  much  interested  in  observing  the  crosses \
which  were  put  up  here  and  there  by  the  road \
side,  with  the  various  emblems  and  symbols  con- \
nected with  our  Saviour's  death  affixed  to  them. \
The  first  time  that  one  of  these  crosses  attracted \
their  attention,  Rosie  was  riding  in  the  coupe \
with  Mr.  George  and  Rollo.  There  was  room \
enough  for  her  to  sit  very  comfortably  between \
them. \
\
"See!"  said  Rosie;  "see!  Look  at  that \
cross,  with  all  those  images  and  figures  upon  it ! " \
\
The  cross  was  pretty  large,  and  was  made  of \
wood.  It  was  set  up  by  the  road  side,  like  a  sign \
post  in  America.  From  the  middle  of  the  post \
out  to  the  left  hand  end  of  the  arm  of  the  cross, \
there  was  a  spear  fixed.  This  spear,  of  course,  rep- \
resented the  weapon  of  the  Roman  soldier,  by \
which  the  body  of  Jesus  was  pierced  in  the  side. \
From  the  same  part  of  the  post  out  to  the  end \
of  the  opposite  arm  of  the  cross  was  a  pole  with \
two  sponges  at  the  end  of  it,  which  represented \
the  sponges  with  which  the  soldiers  reached  the \
vinegar  up  for  Jesus  to  drink.  Then  all  along \
the  cross  bar  were  various  other  emblems,  such  as \
the  nails,  the  -hammer,  a  pair  of  pincers,  a  little \
ladder,  a  great  key,  and  on  the  top  a  cock,  to \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY. \
\
\
63 \
\
\
Picture  of  one  of  the  crosses. \
\
\
IB  it  idolatry  ? \
\
\
EMBLEMS   ON  THE  CROSS. \
\
\
represent  the  cock  which  crowed  at  the  time  of \
Peter's  betrayal  of  his  Lord. \
\
Hollo  and  Rosie  both  looked  at  these  things \
very  eagerly,  as  the  carriage  drove  by.  Rosie \
seemed  somewhat  shocked  at  the  sight. \
\
"  How  curious  that  is  !  "  said  Rollo. \
\
"  I  suppose  it  is  all  idolatry,"  said  Rosie,  speak- \
ing very  seriously. \
\
"  No,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  it  is  not  necessarily \
idolatry.  These  kind  of  contrivances  originated \
in  the  middle  ages,  when  the  poor  people  who \
lived  in  all  these  countries  were  very  ignorant, \
\
\
64  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  explains  the  use  of  such  emblems. \
\
as  indeed  they  are  now  ;  and  inasmuch  as  they \
could  not  read,  and  there  were  no  schools  in \
which  to  teach  them,  they  had  to  be  instructed  by \
such  contrivances  as  these." \
\
"  They  are  very  poor  contrivances,  I  think," \
said  Rollo. \
\
"  They  would  be  very  poor  as  a  substitute  for \
Sunday  schools,  and  other  such  advantages  as  the \
children  enjoy  in  America,"  said  Mr.  George  ; \
"  but  not  very  poor,  after  all,  for  the  people  for \
whom  they  were  intended.  Go  back  in  imagina- \
tion five  hundred  years,  and  conceive  of  a  little \
child,  born  in  one  of  these  peasants7  huts. \
His  father  and  mother  probably  have  never \
even  seen  a  book,  and  are  not  capable  of  un- \
derstanding any  thing  that  is  not  perfectly  sim- \
ple and  plain.  The  child,  walking  along  the \
road  side,  sees  this  cross.  He  stops  to  look \
up  at  it,  and  wonders  what  all  those  little  objects \
fastened  upon  it  mean.  After  a  while,  when \
he  grows  a  little  older,  he  asks  his  mother, \
when  she  is  coming  by  with  him  some  day,  what \
they  mean.  Now,  she  would  not  have  been  able, \
of  herself,  and  without  any  aid,  to  give  the  child \
any  regular  instruction  whatever,  but  she  can  ex- \
plain to  him  about  the  cross,  and  the  various  em- \
blems that  are  upon  it." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rosie  ;  "  I  should  think  she  could \
do  that." \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  65 \
\
Mr.  George's  charitable  construction  of  the  case. \
\
"  The  child,"  continued  Mr.  George,  "  in  look- \
ing upon  the  cross,  and  seeing  all  those  curious \
objects  upon  it,  would  ask  his  mother  what  they \
mean.  Then  his  mother  would  tell  him  about \
the  crucifixion  of  Christ.  '  They  nailed  him  to \
the  cross/  she  would  say,  '  by  long  nails  passing \
through  his  hands  and  feet.  Don't  you  see  the \
nails  ?  '  And  the  child  would  say,  *  Yes/  and \
look  at  the  nails  very  intently.  *  The  soldiers \
climbed  up  by  a  ladder/  she  would  say.  '  Don't \
you  see  the  ladder  ?  And  by  and  by,  when  in \
his  fever  he  called  for  some  drink,  they  reached \
something  up  to  him  by  a  sponge  fastened  to  the \
end  of  a  long  pole.  Do  you  see  the  pole  ? ;  The \
child  would  look  at  all  these  things,  and  would \
get  a  much  more  clear  and  vivid  idea  of  the  trans- \
action than  it  would  be  possible  for  so  ignorant  a \
mother  to  communicate  to  it  in  any  other  way." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rosie  ;  "  I  think  she  would." \
\
"  Thus  you  see,"  continued  Mr.  George,  "  there \
is  a  right  and  proper  use  of  such  contrivances  as \
these,  as  well  as  a  wrong  and  an  idolatrous  one. \
Unfortunately,  however,  pretty  much  all  of  them, \
though  perhaps  originally  well  intended,  have \
degenerated,  in  Catholic  countries,  into  supersti- \
tion and  idolatry." \
\
The  scenery  of  the  country  through  which  the \
journey  lay  was  enchanting.  The  ground  was \
5 \
\
\
66  ROLLO  ix  NAPLES. \
\
Enchanting  scenery.      Fertile  plains.      Blue  and  beautiful  mountains. \
\
every  where  cultivated  like  a  garden.  There \
were  wheat  fields,  and  vineyards,  and  olive  or- \
chards, and  rows  of  mulberry  trees  for  the  silk \
worms,  and  gardens  of  vegetables  of  every  kind. \
Here  and  there  groups  of  peasants  were  to  be \
seen  at  work,  men  and  women  together,  some \
digging  fresh  fields,  some  ploughing,  some  plant- \
ing, and  some  pruning  the  trees  or  the  vines.  In \
many  places  the  vines  were  trained  upon  the \
trees,  so  that  in  riding  along  the  road  you \
seemed  to  see  an  immense  orchard  on  each  side \
of  you,  with  a  carpet  of  rich  verdure  below,  and \
a  monstrous  serpent  climbing  up  into  every  tree, \
from  the  grass  beneath  it. \
\
The  scenery  was  very  much  varied,  too  ;  and \
the  changes  were  on  so  grand  a  scale  that  they \
made  the  views  which  were  presented  on  every \
side  appear  extremely  imposing.  Sometimes  the \
road  lay  across  a  wide  plain,  many  miles  in  extent, \
but  extremely  fertile  and  luxuriant,  and  bound- \
ed in  the  distance  by  blue  and  beautiful  moun- \
tains. After  travelling  upon  one  of  these  plains \
for  many  hours,  the  road  would  gradually  ap- \
proach the  mountains,  and  then  at  length  would \
enter  among  them,  and  begin  to  wind,  by  zigzags, \
up  a  broad  slope,  or  into  a  dark  ravine.  At  such \
places  Vittorio  would  stop,  usually  at  a  post \
house  at  the  foot  of  the  ascent,  and  take  an  ad- \
\
\
ASCENDING   THE    MOUNTAIN! \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  69 \
\
Zigzags  up  the  mountains.  Teams  of  oxen. \
\
ditional  horse,  or  pair  of  horses,  and  sometimes \
a  yoke  of  oxen,  to  help  his  team  draw  the  car- \
riage up  the  hill.  Many  of  these  ascents  were \
four  or  five  miles  long,  and  as  the  road  turned \
upon  itself  in  continual  zigzags,  there  was  pre- \
sented to  Mr.  George  and  Eollo,  and  also  to  Mrs. \
Gray's  party  within  the  carriage^  as  they  ascend- \
ed, a  perpetual  succession  of  widely-extended \
views  over  the  vast  plain  below,  with  the  road \
which  they  had  traversed  stretching  across  it  in \
a  straight  line  for  ten  or  fifteen  miles,  like  a \
white  ribbon. \
\
Sometimes  Mr.  George  and  the  two  boys  de- \
scended from  the  carriage,  and  walked  for  a \
while,  in  going  up  these  hills  ;  but  generally  they \
remained  in  their  seats  and  rode.  Indeed  the \
men  who  came  with  the  extra  horses  or  oxen  often \
rode  themselves.  When  oxen  were  employed, \
the  man  used  to  ride,  sometimes  sitting  on  the \
yoke  between  them,  and  facing  backward,  so  that \
he  could  watch  them  and  see  how  they  performed \
their  work.  He  kept  them  up  to  their  work  by \
means  of  a  small  whip,  which  he  had  in  his \
hand. \
\
After  reaching  the  top  of  the  ascent,  Yittorio \
would  stop,  and  the  man  would  detatch  his  oxen \
from  the  team.  Yittorio  would  pay  him  for  his \
services,  and  then  the  man  would  come  and  hold \
\
\
70  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  party  stop  for  breakfast.  Appearance  of  the  inns. \
\
out  his  hat  to  Mr.  George  and  Rollo  for  a  buono \
mano  from  them.  Rollo  always  had  it  ready. \
\
The  party  stopped  every  day  at  noon  for \
breakfast,  as  Vittorio  called  it.  The  coffee,  and \
eggs,  and  bread  and  butter,  which  they  had  early \
in  the  morning,  was  not  called  breakfast ;  it  was \
called  simply  coffee.  The  breakfast,  which  came \
about  noon,  consisted  of  fried  fish,  beafsteaks,  or \
mutton  chops,  fried  potatoes,  all  hot,  and  after- \
wards oranges  and  figs.  With  this  there  was \
always  what  they  called  wine  set  upon  the  table, \
which  tasted  like  a  weak  mixture  of  sour  cider \
and  water.  Every  thing,  except  the  wine,  was \
very  good. \
\
Mrs.  Gray,  however,  always  called  this  meal \
the  dinner,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  party  were \
very  willing  to  have  it  called  so  ;  and  when  they \
stopped  at  night,  all  that  they  required  was  tea \
and  coffee,  with  bread  and  butter. \
\
The  inns  where  the  party  stopped  were  very \
quaint  and  queer.  They  looked,  Josie  said,  pre- \
cisely as  he  had  imagined  the  inns  to  look  which \
he  had  read  about  in  Don  Quixote.  The  entrance \
was  generally  under  an  arched  passage  way, \
where  the  horses  and  carriage  could  go  in.  From \
this  passage  a  flight  of  broad  stone  steps  led  up \
into  the  house.  The  lower  floor  was  usually  oc- \
cupied for  stables,  sheds,  and  other  such  purposes. \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  71 \
\
The  apartments.  Stone  floors.  Bed  rooms. \
\
and  the  one  above  for  kitcheus  and  the  like. \
Higher  up  came  the  good  rooms. \
\
The  apartment  which  was  used  by  the  party \
for  their  sitting  and  eating  room  was  usually  a \
large  hall,  with  a  brick  or  stone  floor,  and  a \
vaulted  ceiling  above,  painted  in  fresco.  The \
walls  of  the  room  were  usually  painted  too. \
There  was  generally  a  small  and  very  coarse  car- \
pet under  the  table,  and  sometimes  one  before  the \
fireplace.  The  doors  were  massive  ;  and  the  locks \
and  hinges  upon  them,  and  also  the  andirons  and \
the  shovel  and  tongs,  were  of  the  most  ancient \
and  curious  construction.  The  first  thing  which \
the  children  did,  on  being  ushered  into  one  of \
these  old  halls,  was  to  walk  all  about,  and  exam- \
ine these  various  objects  in  detail.  Rollo  made \
drawings  of  a  great  many  of  them  in  his  draw- \
ing book,  to  bring  home  and  show  to  people  in \
America. \
\
The  bed  rooms  opened  out  from  this  great  hall, \
on  the  different  sides  of  it.  There  were  general- \
ly, but  not  always,  two  beds  in  each.  According \
to  the  agreement,  Mrs.  Gray  had  her  first  choice \
of  these  rooms.  She  chose  one,  if  possible, \
which  had  one  wide  bed  in  it,  and  one  narrow \
one.  The  wide  one  was  for  herself  and  Rosie  ; \
the  narrow  one  was  for  Susannah. \
\
Mr.  George  came  next  in  the  order  of  choice, \
\
\
72  ROLLO   IN   NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  announces  a  rule  that  be  has  made. \
\
and  he  generally  took  a  room  which  had  only \
one  bed  in  it,  leaving  another  room  with  two \
single  beds  in  it  for  the  two  boys.  They  always \
had  a  fire  in  the  great  hall  every  evening.  Mrs. \
Gray  usually  went  to  her  room  with  Rosie  and \
Susannah  at  half  past  eight,  leaving  Mr.  George \
and  the  two  boys  in  the  hall.  The  first  evening \
of  the  journey  \'97  that  is,  the  evening  of  the  night \
spent  at  Arezzo  \'97  Mr.  George  told  Rollo,  as  soon \
as  Mrs.  Gray  had  gone,  that  he  had  some  bad \
news  to  tell  him. \
\
"  What  is  it  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  It  is  that  I  am  going  to  make  a  rule  for  you, \
that  every  night,  from  and  after  the  time  that \
Mrs.  Gray  goes  into  her  room,  you  are  not  to \
have  any  conversation  with  any  body." \
\
"  Why  not,  uncle  George  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  Because  I  want  to  have  the  room  still,  so \
that  I  can  write.  I  have  journals  and  letters  to \
write,  and  so  have  you,  \'97  and  so  I  suppose  has \
Josie  ;  and  the  evening,  after  Mrs.  Gray  and \
Rosie  have  gone  to  their  room,  will  be  the  best \
time  to  appropriate  to  the  work.  You  can  do \
your  own  work  of  this  kind  at  that  time  or  not, \
just  as  you  please  ;  but  if  you  do  not  do  it,  you \
must  not  interrupt  me  in  doing  mine." \
\
"  I  suppose  that  is  a  rule  for  me  and  Josie  too," \
said  Rollo. \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  73 \
\
\
Mr.  George  disclaims  any  authority  over  Josie. \
\
"  No,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  it  is  for  you  alone." \
\
"  Why  is  it  not  a  rule  for  Josie,"  said  Rollo, \
"  as  much  as  for  me  ?  " \
\
"  Because  I  have  no  authority  to  make  any \
rules  for  Josie,"  replied  Mr.  George.  "  I  have \
no  authority  over  him  at  all,  but  only  over \
you." \
\
"But,  uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "if  you  are \
busy  writing,  and  I  am  not  allowed  to  talk,  and \
Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  have  gone  to  bed,  Josie \
will  not  have  any  body  to  talk  to." \
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
"  Then  I  don't  see  but  that  you  might  just  as \
well  make  the  rule  for  him  too,  at  once,"  said \
Rollo.  "  You  may  just  as  well  make  a  rule  that \
he  shall  not  talk  himself,  as  to  make  one  that \
cuts  him  off  from  having  any  body  to  talk  to." \
\
"  Only,"  replied  Mr.  George,  "  that  to  do  the \
one  comes  within  my  authority,  while  to  do  the \
other  does  not." \
\
Here  Rollo  was  silent  a  few  minutes,  and \
seemed  to  be  musing  on  what  Mr.  George  had \
said.  Presently  he  added, \'97 \
\
"  Besides,,  uncle  George,  this  is  not  put  down \
among  the  rules  and  regulations  for  the  jour- \
ney which  you  drew  up.  We  all  agreed  to \
abide  by  those  rules,  and  this  is  not  one  of \
them." \
\
\
74  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Rollo  assents  to  the  new  rule. \
\
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  But  those  rules \
and  regulations  are  of  force  as  a  compact  only \
between  Mrs.  Gray  and  me,  as  the  heads  respec- \
tively of  the  two  divisions  of  the  party.  They \
are  not  at  all  of  the  nature  of  a  compact  between \
Mrs.  Gray  and  her  children,  nor  between  you  and \
me.  Her  authority  over  her  children  in  respect  to \
every  thing  not  referred  to  in  the  compact,  is  left \
entirely  untouched  by  them,  and  so  is  mine  over \
you." \
\
"  Well,"  said  Rollo,  drawing  a  long  breath, \
"  I  have  no  objection  at  all  to  the  rule.  In- \
deed, I  should  like  some  time  every  evening \
to  write  and  draw.  I  only  wanted  to  see  how \
you  would  defend  your  rule,  in  the  argument." \
\
"  And  how  do  you  think  the  argument  stands  ?  " \
asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  I  think  it  stands  pretty  strong,"  said  Rollo. \
\
Rollo  further  inquired  of  his  uncle  whether \
he  and  Josie  could  not  talk  in  their  own  room  ; \
but  Mr.  George  said  no.  If  boys  were  allowed \
to  talk  together  after  they  went  to  bed,  he \
said,  they  were  very  apt  to  get  into  a  frolic, \
and  disturb  those  who  slept  in  the  adjoining \
rooms. \
\
"  And  besides,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  even  if  they \
do  not  get  into  a  frolic,  they  sometimes  go  on \
talking  to  a  later  hour  than  they  imagine,  and \
\
\
THE  JOURNEY.  75 \
\
The  party  proceed  ou  their  journey. \
\
the  sound  of  their  voices  is  heard  like  a  con- \
stant murmuring  through  the  partitions,  and  dis- \
turbs every  body  that  is  near.  So  you  must  do \
all  your  talking  in  the  course  of  the  day,  and \
when  eight  o'clock  comes,  you  must  bring  your \
discourse  to  a  close.  You  may  sit  up  as  long  as \
you  please  to  read  or  write  ;  but  when  you  get \
tired  of  those  employments,  you  must  go  to  bed \
and  go  to  sleep." \
\
The  rule  thus  made  was  faithfully  observed \
during  the  whole  journey. \
\
It  was  Monday  morning  when  the  party  left \
Florence,  and  on  Saturday  afternoon  at  three \
o'clock,  the  carriage  drew  up  at  the  passport  office \
just  under  the  great  gate  called  the  Porta  del  Po~ \
polo,  at  Rome.  The  party  spent  the  Sabbath  at \
Rome,  and  on  the  Monday  morning  after  they  set \
out  again.  On  the  following  Thursday  they  ar- \
rived at  Naples,  and  there  they  all  established \
themselves  in  very  pleasant  quarters  at  the  Hotel \
de  Rome  \'97  a  hotel  which,  being  built  out  over \
the  water  from  the  busiest  part  of  the  town,  com- \
mands on  every  side  charming  views,  both  of  the \
town  and  of  the  sea. \
\
\
76  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Situation  of  Naples.  Vesuvius.  Smoke  and  flame. \
\
\
CHAPTER   IV. \
SITUATION  OF  NAPLES. \
\
NAPLES  is  situated  on  a  bay  which  has  the  rep- \
utation of  being  the  most  magnificent  sheet  of \
water  in  the  world.  It  is  bordered  on  every  side \
by  romantic  cliffs  and  headlands,  or  by  green  and \
beautiful  slopes  of  land,  which  are  adorned  with \
vineyards  and  groves  of  orange  and  lemon  trees, \
and  dotted  with  white  villas  ;  while  all  along \
the  shore,  close  to  the  margin  of  the  water,  there \
extends  an  almost  uninterrupted  line  of  cities  and \
towns  round  almost  the  whole  circumference  of \
the  bay.  The  greatest  of  these  cities  is  Naples. \
\
But  the  crowning  glory  of  the  scene  is  the \
great  volcano  Vesuvius,  which  rises  a  vast  green \
cone  from  the  midst  of  the  plain,  and  emita  from \
its  summit  a  constant  stream  of  smoke.  In \
times  of  eruption  this  smoke  becomes  very  dense \
and  voluminous,  and  alternates  from  time  to \
time  with  bursts  of  what  seems  to  be  flame, \
and  with  explosive  ejections  of  red-hot  stones \
or  molten  lava.  Besides  the  cities  and  towns \
\
\
SITUATION  OF  NAPLES.  79 \
\
Danger  from  eruptions.  The  map. \
\
that  are  now  to  be  seen  along  the  shore  at  the \
foot  of  the  slopes  of  the  mountain,  there  are \
many  others  buried  deep  beneath  the  ground, \
having  been  overwhelmed  by  currents  of  lava \
from  the  volcano,  or  by  showers  of  ashes  and \
stones,  in  eruptions  which  took  place  ages  ago. \
\
Of  course  there  is  every  probability  that  there \
will  be  more  eruptions  in  time  to  come,  and \
that  many  of  the  present  towns  will  also  be  over- \
whelmed and  destroyed,  as  their  predecessors \
have  been.  But  these  eruptions  occur  usually  at \
such  distant  intervals  from  each  other,  that  the \
people  think  it  is  not  probable  that  the  town  in \
which  they  live  will  be  destroyed  in  their  day  ; \
and  so  they  are  quiet.  Of  course,  however, \
whenever  they  hear  a  rumbling  in  the  mountain \
behind  them,  or  notice  any  other  sign  of  an  ap- \
proaching convulsion,  they  naturally  feel  some- \
what nervous  until  the  danger  passes  by. \
\
Naples  is  built  on  the  northern  shore  of  the  bay. \
You  will  see  by  the  map  on  the  preceding  page \
just  what  the  situation  of  the  town  is,  and  where \
Vesuvius  is  in  relation  to  it.  Vesuvius,  you  ob- \
serve, stands  back  a  little  from  the  sea,  but  the \
slope  of  land  extends  quite  down  to  the  margin \
of  the  water.  You  perceive,  however,  that  there \
is  a  carriage  road,  and  also  a  railroad,  passing \
along  the  coast  between  the  mountain  and  the  sea. \
\
\
80  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Lercnlaneum  and  Pompeii.  Resina.  The  Hermitage. \
\
Besides  the  villages  and  towns  laid  down  on \
the  map,  upon  this  coast,  there  are  many  little  ham- \
lets scattered  along  the  way,  so  that,  as  seen  across \
the  water  from  Naples,  there  seems  to  be,  as  it \
were,  a  continued  town,  extending  along  the \
whole  line  of  the  shore. \
\
Among  the  places  named  on  the  map  you  see \
the  sites  of  Herculaneum  and"  Pompeii  marked. \
Pompeii  lies  to  the  south-east  from  the  mountain, \
and  Herculaneum  to  the  south-west.  Of  course \
the  lava,  in  breaking  out  from  the  crater  in  differ- \
ent eruptions,  runs  down  the  mountain,  sometimes \
on  one  side  and  sometimes  on  another.  It  is \
the  same  with  the  showers  of  stones  and  ashes, \
which  are  carried  in  different  directions,  accord- \
ing to  the  course  of  the  wind. \
\
Very  near  the  site  of  Herculaneum  you  see \
a  small  town  laid  down,  named  Resina.  This  is \
the  place  where  people  stop  when  about  to  make \
the  ascent  of  Vesuvius,  and  leave  the  carriage \
in  which  they  came  from  Naples.  If  they  come \
by  the  railroad,  they  leave  the  train  at  the  Porti- \
ci  station,  which,  also,  you  will  see  upon  the  map, \
and  thence  go  to  Resina  by  a  carriage. \
\
At  Resina  they  take  another  carriage,  or  some- \
times go  on  in  the  same,  until  they  get  up  to \
what  is  called  the  Hermitage,  the  place  of  which \
you  also  see  marked  on  the  map.  The  Hermitage \
\
\
SITUATION  OF  NAPLES.  81 \
\
Mode  of  making  the  ascent  of  the  mountain. \
\
is  so  called  because  the  spot  was  once  the  resi- \
dence of  a  monk  who  lived  there  alone  in  his \
cell.  It  is  now,  however,  a  sort  of  ruin. \
\
There  is  no  carriage  road  at  all  beyond  the \
Hermitage,  and  here,  accordingly,  the  party  of \
travellers  take  mules  or  donkeys,  to  go  on  some \
distance  farther.  At  last  they  reach  a  part  of \
the  mountain  which  is  so  steep  that  even  mules \
and  donkeys  cannot  go  ;  and  here  the  people  are \
accordingly  obliged  to  dismount,  and  to  climb  up \
the  last  part  of  the  ascent  on  foot,  or  else  to  be \
carried  up  in  a  chair,  which  is  the  mode  usually \
adopted  for  ladies.  You  will  see  how  Mr. \
George  and  Rollo  managed,  in  the  next  chapter. \
\
The  ruins  of  Herculaneum  can  be  visited  on \
the  same  day  in  which  you  make  the  ascent  of \
Vesuvius  ;  for,  as  you  see  by  the  map,  they  are \
very  near  the  place,  Resina,  where  the  ascent \
of  the  mountain  commences.  Pompeii,  however, \
is  much  farther  on,  and  usually  requires  a  sepa- \
rate day. \
\
Besides,  it  takes  much  longer  to  visit  Pompeii \
than  Herculaneum,  on  account  of  there  being  so \
much  more  to  see  there.  The  reason  for  this  is, \
that  the  excavations  have  been  carried  on  much \
farther  at  Pompeii  than  at  Herculaneum.  Hereu- \
laneum  was  buried  up  in  lava,  and  the  lava,  when \
it  cooled,  became  as  hard  as  a  stone ;  whereas \
\
e \
\
\
82  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Excavations  at  Ilei culaueum.  1/ompeiL \
\
Pompeii  was  only  covered  with  ashes  and  cin- \
ders, which  are  very  easily  dug  away. \
\
Besides,  Herculaneum  was  buried  very  deep, \
so  that,  in  order  to  get  to  it,  you  have  to  go  far \
down  under  ground.  The  fact  that  there  was  an \
ancient  city  buried  there  was  discovered  about  a \
hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  by  a  man  digging  a \
well  in  the  ground  above.  In  digging  this  well, \
the  workmen  came  upon  some  statues  and  other \
remains  of  ancient  art.  They  dug  these  things \
out,  and  afterwards  the  excavations  were  contin- \
ued for  many  years  ;  but  the  difficulties  in  the \
way  were  so  great,  on  account  of  the  depth  be- \
low the  surface  of  the  ground  where  the  work  was \
to  be  done,  and  also  on  account  of  the  hardness \
of  the  lava,  that  after  a  while  it  was  abandoned. \
People,  however,  now  go  down  sometimes  through \
a  shaft  made  near  the  well  by  which  the  first  dis- \
covery was  made,  and  ramble  about,  by  the  light \
of  torches,  which  they  carry  with  them,  among \
the  rubbish  in  the  subterranean  chambers. \
\
The  site  of  Pompeii  was  discovered  in  the \
same  way  with  Herculaneum,  namely,  by  the  dig- \
ging of  a  well.  Pompeii,  however,  as  has  al- \
ready been  said,  was  not  buried  nearly  as  deep  as \
Herculaneum,  and  the  substances  which  covered \
it  were  found  to  be  much  softer,  and  more  easily \
removed.  Consequently  a  great  deal  more  has \
\
\
SITUATION   OF  NAPLES.  83 \
\
Things  found  at  Pompeii.  The  museum. \
\
been  done  at  Pompeii  than  at  Herculaneum  in \
making  excavations.  Nearly  a  third  of  the \
whole  city  has  now  been  explored,  and  the  work \
is  still  going  on. \
\
The  chief  inducement  for  continuing  to  dig  out \
these  old  ruins,  is  to  recover  the  various  pictures, \
sculptures,  utensils,  and  other  curious  objects \
that  are  found  in  the  houses.  These  things,  as \
fast  as  they  are  found,  are  brought  to  Naples,  and \
deposited  in  an  immense  museum,  which  has  been \
built  there  to  receive  them. \
\
You  will  see  in  a  future  chapter  how  Hollo \
went  to  see  this  museum. \
\
Vesuvius,  Herculaneum,  and  Pompeii  are  all \
to  the  eastward  of  Naples,  following  the  shore  of \
the  bay.  To  the  westward,  at  the  distance  of \
about  a  mile  or  two  from  the  centre  of  the  town, \
is  a  famous  passage  through  a  hill,  like  the  tun- \
nel of  a  railway,  which  is  considered  a  great  cu- \
riosity. This  passage  is  called  the  Grotto  of  Po- \
silipo.  You  will  see  its  place  marked  upon  the \
map.  The  wonder  of  this  subterranean  passage \
way  is  its  great  antiquity.  It  has  existed  at  least \
eighteen  hundred  years,  and  how  much  longer \
nobody  knows.  It  is  wide  enough  for  a  good \
broad  road.  When  it  was  first  cut  through,  it \
was  only  high  enough  for  a  carriage  to  pass ;  but \
the  floor  of  it  has  been  cut  down  at  different \
\
\
84  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES; \
\
Some  account  of  the  grotto  of  Posilipo. \
\
times,  until  now  the  tunnel  is  nearly  seventy  feet \
high  at  the  ends,  and  about  twenty-five  in  the \
middle.  High  up  on  the  sides  of  it,  at  different \
distances,  you  can  see  the  marks  made  by  the \
hubs  of  the  wheels,  as  they  rubbed  against  the \
rocks,  at  the  different  levels  of  the  road  way,  in \
ancient  times. \
\
On  passing  through  the  grotto  in  a  carriage, \
or  on  foot,  the  traveller  comes  out  to  an  open \
country  beyond,  where  he  sees  a  magnificent \
prospect  spread  out  before  him.  The  road  goes \
on  along  the  coast,  and  comes  to  several  very \
curious  places,  which  will  be  described  particu- \
larly in  future  chapters  of  this  volume; \
\
On  the  afternoon  of  the  day  when  Mr.  George \
and  his  party  arrived  at  the  hotel,  just  before  sun- \
down, Hollo  came  into  Mrs.  Gray's  parlor,  where \
Mr.  George  and  all  tlie  rest  of  the  party,  except \
Josie,  were  sitting,  and  asked  them  to  go  with  him \
and  see  a  place  which  he  and  Josie  had  found. \
\
" Where  is  it,  and  what  is  it?"  asked  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
"You  must  come  and  see,"  said  Molk-  ''I \
would  rather  not  tell  you  till  you  come  and  seW' \
\
But  Mrs;  (Jra^j  being  somewhat  fatigued  witH \
her  ride,  and  being,  moreover,  very  eomfortabl/ \
seated  efi  ft  sofa,  seeded  not  inclined  ie  mo'te. \
\
\'a7ail  Jfe.  \'a7raf ,  "ani \
\
\
SITUATION  OP  NAPLES.  85 \
\
Hollo  takes  Rosie  up  upon  the  roof. \
\
when  she  has  seen  it,  she  may  come  back  and  tell \
me,  and  if  she  thinks  it  is  worth  while  I  will  go." \
\
"  Well,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  come,  Rosie." \
\
So  Rollo  led  the  way,  and  Rosie  followed  out \
of  the  parlor  into  the  hall,  and  from  the  hall \
along  a  sort  of  corridor  which  led  to  a  narrow \
and  winding  stone  stair. \
\
"  No,"  said  Rosie,  as  soon  as  she  began  to  as- \
cend the  stair,  "  I  don't  think  mother  will  like  to \
come.  She  does  not  like  to  go  up  long  stairs, \
especially  stone  stairs,  and  more  especially  still, \
stairs  that  wind  round  and  round." \
\
"  Wait  and  see,"  said  Rollo. \
\
After  going  round  and  round  several  times,  \'97 \'95 \
all  the  while  ascending,  \'97  Rollo  came  out  to  a \
sort  of  open  passage  way,  paved  with  glazed \
tiles  of  a  very  pretty  pattern,  where  there  was  a \
door  leading  out  to  a  balcony.  From  this  bal- \
cony there  was  a  narrow  iron  stair  which  led  up \
on  the  outside  of  the  house  to  the  roof.  Rollo \
led  the  way  up  this  stair,  and  Rosie  followed \
him,  though  somewhat  timidly.  They  landed \
at  length  on  a  sort  of  platform  among  the  chim- \
neys, from  which  another  stair  led  up  to  another \
platform,  higher  still,  where  Josie  was. \
\
"  There  ! "  said  Rollo,  as  soon  as  he  reached  the \
first  platform,  "don't  you  think  your  mother \
would  like  to  be  here  ?  " \
\
\
86  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Views  from  the  roof. \
\
\
Rosie  looked  around,  and  saw  that  a  magnifi- \
cent panorama  presented  itself  to  her  view. \
\
"She  would  like  to  be  here  very  much,  if  she \
only  dared  to  come."  said  Rosie. \
\
On  looking  towards  the  east,  Rosie  could  sur- \
vey the  whole  shore  of  the  bay  in  that  direction, \
with  the  continuous  line  of  towns  and  villages \
along  the  margin  of  the  water,  and  the  immense \
green  slopes  of  Vesuvius  rising  beyond.  Among \
the  green  fields  and  groves,  far  up  these  slopes, \
white  hamlets  and  villas  were  scattered,  and \
above,  the  double  summit  of  Vesuvius  was  seen, \
with  dense  volumes  of  white  smoke  ascending \
from  one  of  the  peaks.  The  children,  too,  could \
look  from  where  they  stood  far  out  over  the  bay, \
and  see  the  ships  and  steamers  in  the  offing,  and \
great  numbers  of  small  boats  plying  to  and  fro \
nearer  the  shore. \
\
Rollo  had  an  opera  glass  in  his  hand,  which  he \
used  as  a  spy-glass.  He  let  Rosie  look  through \
this  glass  at  the  mountain,  so  that  she  might  see \
the  smoke  coming  out  more  distinctly.  With  the \
glass,  besides  the  general  column  of  vapor,  she \
could  discern  several  places,  near  the  summit, \
where  small,  separate  puffs  of  smoke  were  is- \
suing. \
\
Farther  down  the  mountain,  Rollo  directed  her \
attention  to  a  white  building,  which  was  seen  very \
\
\
SITUATION  OF  NAPLES.  87 \
\
The  Hermitage  seen  through  the  opera  glass. \
\
distinctly  in  the  rays  of  the  setting  sun.  This \
building,  he  said,  must  be  the  Hermitage. \
\
"  How  do  you  know  it  is  the  Hermitage  ?  " \
asked  Rosie. \
\
"  I  know  by  the  situation  of  it,"  said  Rollo. \
"  Look  through  the  prlass  and  you  will  see  that  it \
\
\
VIEW  THROUGH  THE  GLASS. \
\
\
is  the  highest  house  on  the  mountain  side.  Be- \
sides, it  stands  on  the  end  of  a  ridge  or  spur, \
projecting  from  the  mountain,  just  as  I  know  the \
Hermitage  does,  with  a  deep  valley  on  each  side \
of  it." \
\
\
88  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  children  make  various  observations. \
\
"  I  should  have  thought  that  they  would  have \
built  it  in  one  of  the  valleys,"  said  Rosie.  "  It \
would  have  been  more  sheltered  then  from  the \
wind." \
\
'*'  No,"  said  Hollo.  "  That  would  not  have \
been  a  good  plan  at  all,  for  then  it  would  have \
been  in  the  track  of  the  streams  of  lava.  The \
lava  comes  down  through  the  valleys." \
\
"  I  can  see  the  zigzag  road  leading  up  to  the \
Hermitage,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  Yes,"  replied  Rollo  ;  "  and  I  think  it  probable \
we  could  see  people  going  up  or  coming  down, \
if  there  were  any  there  now." \
\
"  I  mean  to  watch,"  said  Rosie. \
\
Rosie  watched,  but  she  did  not  see  any  thing \
moving.  The  truth  was,  that  the  people  who  had \
been  up  that  day  had  all  come  down.  They  usu- \
ally come  down  early  in  the  afternoon.  And  yet \
parties  sometimes  make  arrangements  to  stay  up \
there  until  after  dark,  so  as  to  see  the  glow  of \
the  fires  that  are  continually  smouldering  in  the \
chasms  and  crevices  of  the  crater,  and  sometimes \
breaking  out  there. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  was  so  much  pleased  with  Rqsie's \
report  of  what  she  saw  on  the  roof,  that  she  went \
up  herself  immediately  after  Rosie  came  down. \
Mr.  George  went  up  too.  As  for  Josie,  he  staid \
up  there  all  the  time. \
\
When  Mrs.  Gray  and  Mr.  George  reached  the \
\
\
SITUATION  OP  NAPLES.  89 \
\
Mrs.  Gray  goes  up.  The  iron  stair. \
\
first  platform,  Josie  called  to  them.  "  Mother," \
said  he,  "  come  up  here  !  " \
\
"  No,"  said  Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  this  is  high  enough  for \
me.  I  can  see  very  well  here." \
\
Mrs.  Gray  was  very  much  interested  in  the \
view  of  the  mountain,  and  of  the  column  of \
smoke  issuing  from  the  summit.  She  had  not \
seen  the  summit  before,  as  all  the  upper  part  of \
the  mountain  had  been  enveloped  in  clouds  during \
the  time  while  they  were  approaching  the  town. \
\
She  was  also  much  pleased  with  the  view  of \
Naples  itself,  which  she  obtained  from  this  plat- \
form. The  hotel  was  built  out  over  the  water, \
so  that  from  the  lookout  the  town  was  spread \
out  in  full  view,  with  all  the  great  castles  and \
towers  which  crowned  the  cliffs  and  headlands \
above,  and  the  various  moles,  and  piers,  and  for- \
tresses, that  extended  out  into  the  water  below. \
\
In  coming  up  the  iron  stair,  on  the  outside  of \
the  building,  Mrs.  Gray  had  been  a  little  afraid  ; \
but  in  coining  down  she  found  the  steps  so  firm \
and  solid  under  her  tread  that  she  said  she \
should  not  be  afraid  at  all  a  second  time. \
\
"Then,  mother,"  said  Rosie,  "let  us  come  up \
here  this  evening  after  dark,  and  then  on  the  top \
of  the  mountain,  instead  of  smoke  coming  out,  we \
shall  see  fire." \
\
"  Shall  we,  Rollo  ?  ??  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
\
90  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  party  all  go  to  look  at  Vesuvius  after  dark. \
\
"  I  believe  so,"  said  Rollo.  "  At  any  rate  they \
do  sometimes  see  fire  coming  out ;  and  I  don't \
know  why  we  should  not  to-night." \
\
It  was  finally  agreed  that  after  it  became  dark, \
Rollo  and  Josie  should  go  up  alone  first,  to  see \
if  there  was  any  fire,  and  if  there  was,  then  Mrs. \
Gray  and  Rosie  were  to  go  up. \
\
Accordingly,  about  eight  o'clock,  Rollo  and \
Josie  went  up.  They  very  soon  came  running \
down  again,  and  reported  that  there  was  quite  a \
bright  fire.  So  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  went  up. \
Taking  their  stations  on  the  platform,  and  look- \
ing towards  the  mountain,  they  could  see  distinct- \
ly a  bright  glow  playing  over  the  summit,  with \
brighter  flashes  beaming  up  from  time  to  time. \
The  sight  impressed  them  all  with  an  emotion  of \
solemn  awe. \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.        91 \
\
atber.  The  ascension  postponed. \
\
\
CHAPTER  V. \
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION. \
\
ROLLO  was  very  impatient  for  the  time  to  come \
for  the  ascent  of  Vesuvius;  but  several  days \
elapsed  before  Mr.  George  was  ready.  Then, \
after  that,  for  two  or  three  days,  the  weather  was \
not  favorable.  The  sky  was  filled  with  showery- \
looking  clouds,  and  great  caps  of  fog  hung  over \
the  summits  of  the  mountains. \
\
"  If  we  get  up  there  when  there  are  mists  and \
fogs  hanging  about  the  mountain,"  said  Mr. \
George,  "  we  shall  not  be  able  to  see  the  fire  at \
all." \
\
"Then  I  would  rather  wait  for  a  fair  day," \
said  Rollo. \
\
Hollo  repeatedly  asked  Rosie  if  she  was  not \
going  up. \
\
"  I  don't  know,"  said  Rosie  ;  "  it  depends  upon \
my  mother.  I  shall  not  go  unless  she  goes,  and \
she  says  she  has  not  decided." \
\
At  last,  after  several  days  of  uncertain  weather, \
the  wind  came  round  to  the  westward,  the  clouds \
\
\
ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
The  weather  changes.  They  send  for  a  commissioner. \
\
passed  off,  and  the  whole  sky  became  serene. \
This  was  in  the  afternoon.  Mr.  George  had \
been  rambling  with  Rollo  about  the  town  that \
day  ;  but  when  he  found  that  the  weather  prom- \
ised now  to  be  good,  he  said  he  would  go  home \
and  talk  with  Mrs.  Gray  about  making  the  ascent. \
So  he  and  Rollo  returned  to  the  hotel,  and  went \
up  together  to  Mrs.  Gray's  room. \
\
Mr.  George  told  Mrs.  Gray  that  the  weather \
promised  to  be  favorable  the  next  day  for  the  as- \
cent of  the  mountain. \
\
"  And  Rollo  and  I,"  said  he,  "  think  of  going \
up.  If  you  would  like  to  go,  we  should  be  very \
happy  to  have  you  join  our  party." \
\
"  Can  I  go,  do  you  think  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  0,  yes,"  said  Mr.  George ;  "  you  certainly \
pan  go,  for  you  can  be  carried  up  in  a  portantina \
from  the  place  where  we  leave  the  carriage. \
But  if  you  please,  I  will  send  for  a  commissioner, \
and  he  can  tell  us  all  about  it." \
\
"Very  well,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "I  should  like \
to  have  you  do  that." \
\
"  Ring  the  bell,  then,  Rollo,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
So  Rollo  rang  the  bell  ;  a  servant  man  soon \
came  in.  He  was  what  Rollo  called  the  chamber- \
man.  His  business  was  to  make  the  beds  and \
take  care  of  the  rooms.  This  work,  in  Italy,  is \
done  by  men  generally,  instead  of  by  women. \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.        93 \
\
Consultation  with  Philippe  the  commissioner. \
\
"  Is  there  a  commissioner  attached  to  this  ho- \
tel," asked  Mr.  George,  addressing  the  servant; \
and  speaking  in  French,  "  who  accompanies  par- \
ties to  Vesuvius  ?  " \
\
"  Yes,  sir,  certainly,"  said  the  servant. \
\
"  What  is  his  name  ?  "  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  Philippe,"  replied  the  man. \
\
"  Where  is  he  ?  "  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  He  is  below,"  said  the  man. \
\
"  Please  ask  him  to  come  up,"  said  Mr.  George. \
"  I  want  to  talk  with  him  about  an  excursion  td \
the  mountain." \
\
The  servant  man  went  down,  and  pretty  soon \
Philippe  appeared.  He  was  a  very  intelligent \
looking  young  man,  neatly  dressed,  and  with  a \
frank  and  agreeable  countenance. \
\
"  This  is  Philippe,  I  suppose,"  said  Mr.  George, \
speaking  in  French. \
\
"  Yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe. \
\
"Take  a  seat,"  said  Mr.  George.  "This  lady \
wishes  me  to  make  some  inquiries  of  you  about \
going  up  the  mountain.  Do  you  speak  English  ? \
\
"  Yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe,  "  a  little:*' \
\
On  hearing  this  Mr.  George  changed  the  con- \
versation into  the  English  language,  so  that  Mrs; \
Gray  might  understand  what  was  said,  without \
the  inconvenience  and  delay  ef  having  it  inter- \
pre'tel; \
\
\
94  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Philippe's  explanations.  Account  of  the  Hermitage. \
\
"  In  the  first  place,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  when \
ladies  ascend  the  mountain,  how  far  do  they  go \
in  a  carriage  ?  " \
\
"  To  the  Hermitage/''  said  Philippe. \
\
"  Can  you  go  in  a  good,  comfortable  carriage \
all  the  way  to  the  Hermitage?"  asked  Mr. \
George. \
\
"0,  yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe.  "We  take  an \
excellent  carriage  from  town.  The  road  is  very \
winding  to  go  up  the  mountain,  but  it  is  perfectly \
good.  A  lady  can  go  up  there  as  comfortably  as \
she  can  ride  about  town." \
\
Philippe  further  said  that  ladies  often  went  up \
with  parties  as  far  as  the  Hermitage,  and  then,  if \
they  did  not  wish  to  go  any  farther,  they  re- \
mained there  until  their  friends  came  down. \
\
"  What  sort  of  a  place  is  the  Hermitage  ?  " \
asked  Mrs.  Gray.  "  Is  it  an  inn  ?  " \
\
"  Yes,  madam,"  said  Philippe.  "  It  is  an  inn. \
It  is  a  very  plain  and  homely  place,  but  a  lady \
can  stay  there  very  well  a  few  hours." \
\
"  Is  there  a  family  there  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  No,  madam,"  said  Philippe  ;  "  it  is  kept  by  a \
monk." \
\
"  Let  us  go,  mother,"  said  Josie.  "  We  can  go \
up  there  as  well  as  not." \
\
"Yes,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "I  think  I  should  like \
to  go  up  at  least  as  far  as  there.  I  can  take  a \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.        95 \
\
The  observatory.  Road  to  the  foot  of  the  cone. \
\
book  to  read,  to  while  away  the  time  while  you \
are  up  the  mountain  ;  or  I  can  ramble  about,  I \
suppose.  Is  it  a  pleasant  place  to  ramble  about, \
around  the  Hermitage  ?  " \
\
"  Yes,  madam ;  it  is  a  very  pleasant  place," \
replied  Philippe.  "You  have  an  exceedingly \
fine  view  of  the  bay,  and  of  Naples,  and  of  the \
islands,  and  of  the  whole  Campagna.  Then  the \
observatory  is  near,  and  that  is  a  very  pleasant \
place,  with  gardens  and  plantations  of  trees  all \
around  it.  Perhaps  the  beggars  might  be  a  little \
troublesome  if  you  walked  out,  but  I  think  I \
could  manage  about  that." \
\
"  What  is  the  observatory  that  you  speak  of?" \
asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  It  is  a  government  establishment  that  is  kept \
there  for  making  observations  on  the  state  of  the \
mountain,"  replied  Philippe.  "  It  is  a  fine  build- \
ing, and  it  has  very  pretty  gardens  and  grounds \
around  it." \
\
"  I  should  think  it  would  be  a  very  pleasant \
place,"  said  Mrs.  Gray.  "  Indeed,  it  looks  like  a \
pleasant  place  seen  from  this  hotel  with  Hollo's \
opera  glass." \
\
"  Well,  now  for  the  next  stage  of  the  journey," \
said  Mr.  George  ;  "  that  is,  from  the  Hermitage \
to  the  foot  of  the  cone.  How  far  is  that,  and \
how  do  we  go  ?  n \
\
\
96  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  mule  path'.  Various  preferences. \
\
"  It  is  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour's  walk/' \
replied  Philippe.  "  There  is  no  carriage  road, \
but  only  a  mule  path,  and  in  some  places  the \
road  is  very  rough." \
\
"  Is  it  steep  ?  "  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  No,  sir,"  said  Philippe  ;  "  the  steep  part \
comes  afterwards.  The  mule  path  is  nearly  on  a \
level,  but  it  is  rough  and  rocky.  There  are  three \
ways  of  going.  You  can  walk,  you  can  ride \
upon  a  mule  or  a  donkey,  or  finally,  you  can  be \
carried  in  a  chair.  Ladies  that  do  not  like  to \
walk  so  far  usually  ride  on  a  donkey,  or  else  are \
carried.  It  is  easier  to  be  carried,  but  it  costs  a \
little  more." \
\
"  How  much  more?  "  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  A  dollar,"  said  Philippe. \
\
"  I  think  I  should  rather  be  carried  if  I  were \
to  go,"  said  Mrs.  Gfajr: \
\
"  I'd  rather  fide  on  a  donkey,"  said  Rosier \
\
"  And  I  on  a  mule,"  said  Josiej \
\
''Ybtt  and  I  might  walk,  Rollo/'  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rolld;  "  1  would  ratner  wait/' \
\
Rollo  always  preferred  to  go  on  foot  when  on \
any  of  these  mountain  excursions,  because  then \
he  eotild  ramble  afeoot  this  way  and  that,  wher- \
ever he*  pleased,  &M  elimb  up  upon  the  reeks/ \
and  gather  pants  and \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.        97 \
\
Ascent  of  the  cone.  Nature  of  the  road. \
\
"  Very  well,"  said  Mr.  George ;  "  and  this \
brings  us  to  the  foot  of  the  steep  part  of  the \
mountain.  How  far  is  it  up  this  last  steep \
part?  " \
\
"  About  an  hour's  work,  hard  climbing/7  said \
Philippe. \
\
"  Is  it  very  hard  climbing  ? "  asked  Mr. \
George. \
\
"Yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe;  "it  is  right  up  a \
steep  slope  of  rocks." \
\
"  Is  there  good  footing,'7  asked  Mr.  George, \
"  or  are  the  rocks  loose,  or  slippery  ?  " \
\
"  It  is  very  good  footing,"  said  Philippe.  "  In \
one  sense  the  rocks  are  loose,  for  the  whole  side \
of  the  mountain  where  we  go  up  is  formed  of \
slag  and  scoria.  But  then  the  pieces  are  wedged \
together,  so  as  not  to  move  much,  and  the  foot \
clings  to  them,  so  that  you  don't  slip.  On  the \
whole,  it  is  good  footing.  The  only  difficulty  is, \
it  is  so  steep.  It  is  a  thousand  feet  up  rough \
rocks,  as  steep  as  you  can  go." \
\
"  I  could  not  get  up,  I  am  sure,7'  said  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
"  Nor  I,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  0,  you  can  be  carried  up,"  said  Mr.  George, \
"  in  a  portantina." \
\
"What  kind  of  a  thing  is  it?"  asked  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
7 \
\
\
98  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  portantina.  The  bearers  not  at  all  to  be  pitied. \
\
"It  is  a  common  arm  chair,"  said  Philippe, \
with  two  stout  poles  lashed  to  the  sides  of  it. \
Two  men  take  hold  of  the  ends  of  the  poles  be- \
fore, and  two  others  behind,  and  they  lift  the \
poles,  \'97  chair,  passenger,  and  all, \'97 up  upon  their \
shoulders.  They  carry  you,  in  this  way,  right  up \
the  mountain." \
\
"  I  should  be  afraid,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  You  would  feel  a  little  afraid  at  first,"  said \
Philippe,  "  when  the  men  were  lifting  you  up \
upon  their  shoulders  ;  but  afterwards,  you  would \
not  be  afraid  at  all.  You  ride  as  easy  as  if  two \
persons  were  to  take  you  in  a  chair  and  carry \
you  about  the  room." \
\
"But  I  should  pity  the  poor  men  so  much," \
said  Rosie,  "in  having  such  a  heavy  load  to \
carry ! "  / \
\
"  Ah !  "  said  Philippe,  "  instead  of  pitying \
them,  you  ought  to  rejoice  for  them.  They  are \
so  glad  when  they  get  any  body  to  carry  up ! \
They  are  paid  about  three  quarters  of  a  dollar \
apiece,  and  that  is  a  great  deal  of  money  for \
them.  There  will  be  a  great  many  of  them  up \
there  to-morrow,  waiting,  and  hoping  that  some- \
body will  come  for  them  to  carry  up." \
\
"  Ah,  that  makes  it  different,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  Besides,"  said  Josie,  "  you  are  nothing  to \
cany,  you  are  so  little  and  light.  Rollo  and  I \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.        99 \
\
Rosie  does  not  wish  to  go  for  half  price. \
\
could  carry  you.  I  suppose  that  they  would \
carry  Rosie  for  half  price \'97 would  not  they, \
Philippe?" \
\
Rosie  looked  a  little  troubled  to  hear  her \
brother  speak  of  her  in  this  way.  She  did  not \
like  to  be  called  little  and  light.  Philippe  saw \
that  she  was  troubled. \
\
"  No,"  said  he  ;  "  they  will  ask  the  same  for \
carrying  Miss  Rosie  that  they  would  for  any \
other  lady." \
\
This  answer  removed  in  an  instant  the  cloud \
which  had  appeared  upon  Rosie's  face,  and  re- \
placed it  with  a  smile  which  had  something  of \
the  expression  of  triumph  in  it.  In  fact,  Philippe \
shaped  his  answer  as  he  did  on  purpose  to  please \
her.  It  was  strange  that  a  guide,  whose  life  had \
been  spent  among  the  roughest  of  men,  on  the \
mountains,  should  know  better  how  to  be  polite \
than  a  boy  who  had  been  brought  up  tenderly  in \
the  midst  of  refinement  and  elegance ;  but  so  it \
often  is. \
\
"  How  long  does  it  take  to  go  up  the  steep \
part  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  About  an  hour,"  said  Philippe.  "  They  stop \
two  or  three  times  on  the  way,  to  rest  the  bear- \
ers, and  change  them." \
\
"  Then  they  change  the  bearers,"  said  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
\
100  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Philippe's  account  of  the  ascension.  The  crater. \
\
"  Yes,  madam,"  replied  Philippe.  "  We  take \
eight  bearers  to  each  chair,  and  four  of  them \
carry  it  at  a  time  ;  so  we  have  two  sets." \
\
"  I'm  glad  of  that,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  And  what  do  we  see  when  we  get  to  the \
top  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  We  walk  along  over  the  sand  and  lava,"  re- \
plied Philippe,  "  until  we  come  to  the  edge  of  the \
crater,  and  then  we  look  down." \
\
"  And  do  we  see  the  fire  coming  out  ?  "  asked \
Rollo. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Philippe,  "  plenty  of  fire." \
\
"  And  lava,  and  red-hot  stones  ?  "  asked  Josie. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Philippe,  "  all  the  time." \
\
"  I  hope  you  don't  go  too  near,"  said  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
"  No,  madam,"  said  Philippe  ;  "  we  are  care- \
ful not  to  go  too  near.  There  is  a  mountain \
guide  who  goes  up  with  the  party  from  the  Her- \
mitage, and  it  is  his  business  to  know  all  the \
time  what  the  state  of  the  mountain  is,  and  where \
it  is  safe  to  go.  There  are  two  craters  now. \
One  of  them  they  cannot  go  down  into,  for  the \
sides  have  caved  in  all  around,  and  formed  per- \
pendicular cliffs.  But  at  the  other  crater  there \
is  on  one  side  a  slope  of  sand  and  slag,  where \
people  can  go  down,  and  walk  over  the  lava  on \
the  floor  of  the  crater." \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.       101 \
\
The  lava.  The  plan  finally  arranged. \
\
"  Why,  I  should  think  they  would  sink  into \
it,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"No,"  said  Philippe;  "the  lava  that  lies \
spread  out  over  the  bottom  of  the  crater  has \
cooled  so  as  to  be  hard  enough  to  walk  upon, \
though  you  can  see  that  it  is  red  hot  in  the \
cracks." \
\
"  I  should  not  dare  to  walk  over  it,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  Ladies  go  down  very  often,"  said  Philippe, \
and  there  is  no  danger,  only  the  sulphurous  smoke, \
if  it  happens  to  blow  over  upon  you,  is  bad  to \
breathe." \
\
After  some  further  conversation  with  Philippe, \
and  some  consultation  with  each  other,  the  party \
formed  the  plan  as  follows  :  They  were  all  to  go \
together  in  a  carriage  to  the  Hermitage.  Then \
Philippe  was  to  provide  chairs  and  bearers  for  Mrs. \
Gray  and  Rosie,  to  take  them  to  the  foot  of  the \
cone,  and  animals,  either  mules  or  donkeys,  for \
"  the  three  gentlemen,"  as  Philippe  called  them.  On \
arriving  at  the  foot  of  the  cone,  Mrs.  Gray  was  to \
decide  whether  she  would  let  Rosie  continue  and \
go  to  the  top.  For  herself,  she  concluded  that \
she  would  not  go,  but  after  seeing  the  party  com- \
mence their  ascent,  she  would  go  back  to  the \
Hermitage,  and  wait  there  till  they  returned. \
\
"  And  now,  Philippe,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  I \
wish  you  to  calculate  exactly  what  the  expense \
\
\
102  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  money  arrangements.  Strapmen. \
\
will  be  for  the  whole  expedition,  including  car- \
riage hire,  guides,  bearers,  mules,  buono  manos, \
and  every  thing.  Then  I  will  give  you  money \
enough,  before  we  set  out,  to  pay  the  whole.  I \
don't  wish  to  have  any  thing  to  do  in  the  way  of \
paying,  from  the  time  we  leave  the  hotel  until \
we  get  back  again." \
\
"  Yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe ;  "  that  is  the  best \
way.  If  you  undertake  to  pay  the  men  on  the \
mountain  yourself,  they  will  never  be  satisfied. \
They  clamor  continually  for  more,  as  long  as  the \
party  will  give  any  thing.  I  know  just  what  is \
their  due." \
\
So  Philippe  drew  his  chair  up  to  the  table \
where  Mr.  George  had  placed  a  sheet  of  paper \
and  a  pen  and  ink,  and  began  to  make  out  his \
account.  After  writing  a  few  minutes,  he  looked \
up  from  his  work,  and  asked  if  the  gentlemen \
wished  to  have  any  assistance  in  going  up  the \
cone.  "  What  assistance  can  we  have  ?  "  asked \
Mr.  George. \
\
"There  are  men  who  put  straps  over  their \
shoulders  to  pull  by,  and  let  you  take  hold  of  the \
end  of  them.  It  helps  you  a  great  deal." \
\
"Yes,  uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "  let  us  have \
them.  I  should  like  to  be  pulled  up  in  that \
way." \
\
"  So  should  I,"  said  Josie. \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.      103 \
\
Estimate  of  expenses. \
\
"  You  boys  may  have  strapmen,  then,"  said  Mr. \
George.  "  I  think  I  can  get  along  without  one \
myself." \
\
Philippe  then  asked  if  the  party  would  stop \
on  the  way  and  go  down  into  Herculaneum.  Mr. \
George  said  that  they  would.  Philippe  then  went \
on  with  his  calculation,  and  when  it  was  finished \
he  presented  it  to  Mr.  George.  Mr.  George  wrote \
a  heading  to  it,  and  then  read  it  as  follows,  except \
that  I  give  the  amounts  in  American  money  :  \'97 \
\
\
ASCENT  OP  VESUVIUS. \
Estimate  of  Expenses  \'97  Party  of  Five. \
\
Carriage  to  the  Hermitage,       .        .        .  $5.00 \
Fees  at  Herculaneum,        ....       25 \
Portantina  to  the  foot  of  the  cone  for  ma- \
dame,     2.00 \
\
Portantina  to  the  summit  for  mademoiselle,  6.00 \
Two  mules  for  the  young  gentlemen,  .  2.00 \
Two  strapmen  up  the  cone,  .  .  .1.00 \
\
Refreshments, 50 \
\
Mountain  guide, 1.00 \
\
Buono  manos, 1.00 \
\
Valet  de  place, 1.00 \
\
$19.75 \
\
\
104  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Time  for  setting  out.  Arrangements  for  breakfast. \
\
"  Very  well,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  That  is  sat- \
isfactory. Now  I  will  give  you  gold  enough  to \
cover  that  amount.  You  must  get  it  changed \
into  such  a  form  as  you  want  it,  and  you  must \
not  call  upon  me  or  any  of  the  party  for  any \
money  whatever,  from  the  time  that  we  set  out \
till  we  get  back  again  to  the  hotel." \
\
"  Yery  well,  sir,"  said  Philippe  ;  "  that  is  much \
the  best  way.  The  men  will  gather  around  you \
from  time  to  time  on^the  way,  and  clamor  for \
buono  manos,  but  you  must  not  pay  any  attention \
to  them  ;  say  simply,  'Philippe  will  pay.'" \
\
"  And  now,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  it  is  all  ar- \
ranged except  the  time  for  setting  out.  What  is \
the  best  time  ?  " \
\
"  We  ought  to  set  out  at  eight  or  nine  o'clock," \
said  Philippe.  "  It  takes  about  ten  hours." \
\
"  Let  us  set  out  at  eight,  then,"  said  Mrs. \
Gray.  "  We  can  have  breakfast  at  seven,  I \
suppose." \
\
"  Certainly,"  said  Philippe.  "  And  will  you \
have  it  in  your  own  room  ?  " \
\
"No,"  said  Mrs.  Gray;  "let  us  all  breakfast \
together  in  the  dining  room.  That  will  be  more \
interesting.  We  may  meet  some  other  parties \
there  who  are  going  to  the  mountain." \
\
"  Then  I  will  order  breakfast  for  you  at  seven \
o'clock,"  said  Philippe. \
\
\
PLANNING  THE  ASCENSION.      105 \
\
Conclusion  of  the  arrangements.  The  weather. \
\
"  Provided  you  find,  to-morrow  morning,  that \
the  weather  is  going  to  be  good,"  said  Mr. \
George.  "  We  won't  go  unless  you  are  con- \
vinced that  it  is  going  to  be  a  fiift  day." \
\
"  Yes,  sir,"  said  Philippe  ;  "we  judge 'a  great \
deal  by  the  smoke  on  the  mountain.  If  it  comes \
down  the  mountain  on  this  side,  then  the  weather \
is  going  to  be  bad.  But  if  it  goes  away  on  the \
other  side,  off  towards  the  sea,  then  we  can  gener- \
ally depend  upon  a  fine  day." \
\
So  it  was  agreed  that  Pffilippe  should  make  an \
observation  early  in  the  morning,  and  if  he  con- \
cluded that  the  day  would  be  a  good  one  for  the \
excursion,  he  was  to  come  to  Mr.  George's  room \
and  let  him  know  the  decision.  He  was  then  to \
order  the  breakfast  for  seven  o'clock,  and  the \
carriage  for  eight,  while  Mr.  George  was  to  call \
the  rest  of  the  party. \
\
The  plan  being  thus  formed,  the  party  sepa- \
rated for  the  night.  Hollo  said  that  he  meant \
to  get  up  at  half  past  five,  or  as  soon  as  it  was \
light,  and  go  up  to  the  top  of  the  house,  and  see \
which  way  the  smoke  of  Vesuvius  was  going. \
\
"  Call  for  me,  and  I  will  go  with  you,"  said \
Josie. \
\
"  I  will,"  said  Rollo. \
\
\
106  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
The  party  assemble  in  the  morning  for  breakfast. \
\
\
CHAPTER  VI. \
GOING  UP. \
\
HOLLO  slept  in  the  same  room  with  Mr. \
George.  He  got  up  as  soon  as  it  was  light, \
dressed  himself  in  a  hurried  manner,  and  went \
out.  In  about  ten  minutes  he  returned. \
\
"  Well,  Rollo,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  what  is  the \
report  ?  " \
\
"The  smoke  is  not  going  either  way,"  said \
Rollo.  "  It  mounts  right  straight  up  into  the \
air ;  but  Philippe  says  he  thinks  it  is  going  to  be \
a  fine  day,  and  he  has  ordered  breakfast.  So  I \
think  you  had  better  get  up." \
\
At  seven  o'clock  precisely  the  whole  party \
were  assembled  in  the  dining  room  for. breakfast. \
They  ate  their  breakfast  together  at  the  end  of  one \
of  the  long  tables.  There  were  already  two  other \
parties  in  the  room.  There  was  one  consist- \
ing of  two  gentlemen  that  were  going  to  Vesu- \
vius. There  was  another  larger  party  that  were \
about  setting  out  for  Rome.  Their  carriage \
was  at  the  door,  and  the  vetturino  and  his  men \
\
\
GOING  UP.  107 \
\
\
Mr.  George  takes  his  knapsack. \
\
\
were  at  work  putting  on  the  trunks  and  bag- \
gage. \
\
At  eight  o'clock  precisely,  the  carriage  for  Mr. \
George's  party  came  to  the  door.  All  were \
ready,  and  they  all  immediately  got  in.  Philippe \
put  in  a  basket  containing  provisions.  Mrs. \
Gray  had  a  small  book,  formed  with  leaves  of \
blotting  paper,  to  press  the  flowers  in,  which  she \
meant  to  gather  around  the  Hermitage  while  the \
rest  of  the  party  were  gone  up  the  mountain. \
Mr.  George  took  his  knapsack,  though  there \
seemed  to  be  nothing  in  it. \
\
"What  are  you  carrying  up  an  empty  knapsack \
for,  uncle  George  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  To  bring  down  specimens  in,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"Ah,"  said  Rollo,"!  wish  I  had  thought  to \
take  mine." \
\
"  I'll  let  you  have  part  of  mine,"  said  Mr. \
George.  "It  is  big  enough  to  hold  the  speci- \
mens for  all  of  us." \
\
Philippe,  when  he  found  that  the  company \
were  well  seated  in  the  carriage,  shut  the  door, \
mounted  the  box  with  the  coachman,  and  gave \
the  order  to  drive  on. \
\
The  carriage  was  entirely  open,  and  the  party, \
as  they  drove  along,  enjoyed  an  uninterrupted \
view  of  every  thing  around  them.  They  passed \
\
\
108  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  ride  along  the  quay.  Living  oat  of  doors. \
\
through  one  or  two  beautiful  public  squares,  with \
palaces  and  churches  on  either  hand,  and  lines  of \
troops  parading  before  them.  Then  they  came  to \
a  long  and  exceedingly  busy  street,  with  the  port \
and  the  shipping  on  one  side,  and  stores,  shops, \
hotels,  and  establishments  of  every  kind,  on  the \
other.  The  street  was  crowded  with  people  go- \
ing to  and  fro,  some  on  foot  and  some  in  carriages. \
A  great  many  persons  were  carrying  burdens  on \
their  heads.  Some  had  jars,  or  pails,  or  little \
tubs  of  water  ;  some  had  baskets  heaped  up  with \
oranges,  or  other  fruit.  Some  had  long  boards \
with  a  row  of  loaves  of  dough  upon  them,  which \
they  were  taking  to  the  bakers  to  be  baked. \
\
The  sidewalks,  especially  on  the  side  towards \
the  harbor,  were  thronged  with  people  living  in \
the  open  air,  and  practising  their  various  trades \
there.  There  were  cooks,  cooking  all  sorts  of \
provisions ;  and  blacksmiths,  working  with  ham- \
mers and  anvils ;  and  cabinet  makers,  sawing \
or  planing,  or  gluing  together  the  parts  of  ta- \
bles or  chairs.  Then  there  were  a  great  many \
family  groups,  some  sitting  in  the  sun  around  a \
boat  drawn  up.  or  upon  and  around  a  great  chain \
cable,  or  an  anchor  ;  and  others  gathering  about \
a  fire  made  in  a  brazier,  for  the  morning  was  cool. \
These  families  were  engaged  in  all  the  usual  do- \
mestic avocations  of  a  household.  The  mothers \
\
\
GOING  UP.  109 \
\
\
Mrs.  Gray  resolves  to  come  again. \
\
\
were  dressing  the  children,  or  getting  the  break- \
fast, while  the  grandmothers  and  aunts  were \
knitting,  or  spinning  thread  with  a  distaff  and \
spindle.  The  men  were  often  employed  in  mak- \
ing nets. \
\
The  carriage,  which  was  drawn  by  three  horses \
abreast,  went  on  very  rapidly  through  these \
scenes  \'97  so  rapidly,  in  fact,  that  Mrs.  Gray  had \
not  time  to  look  at  the  various  groups  as  much \
as  she  wished. \
\
"  I  mean  to  come  and  take  a  walk  here  some \
day,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  and  then  I  can  look  at \
all  these  things  at  my  leisure." \
\
"  0  mother,"  said  Josie,  "  you  can't  do  that \
very  well,  on  account  of  the  beggars.  If  a  gen- \
tleman and  lady  attempt  to  walk  together  in  any \
of  these  streets  of  Naples,  the  beggars  come  and \
gather  around  them  at  every  step." \
\
"  Then  I'll  come  some  day  in  a  carriage,  and \
tell  the  coachman  to  drive  slowly." \
\
"  That  will  be  just  as  bad,"  said  Josie.  "  They'll \
come  then  around  the  carriage.  The  only  way \
is  to  drive  so  fast  that  they  cannot  keep  up." \
\
The  carriage  went  on.  It  followed  the  road \
which  led  along  the  shore,  as  shown  in  the  map \
given  in  a  former  chapter  to  illustrate  the  situa- \
tion of  Naples  ;  but  the  shore  was  occupied  with \
such  a  succession  of  hamlets  and  villages  that  the \
\
\
110  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  suburbs  of  Naples.  Calashes. \
\
road  seemed  to  form  a  continued  street  all  the \
way.  After  getting  a  little  beyond  the  confines \
of  Naples,  the  road  was  thronged  with  people \
coming  into  town,  some  on  foot,  with  loads  of \
produce  on  their  heads,  some  driving  donkeys, \
with  immense  burdens  of  vegetables  loaded  in \
panniers  on  their  backs,  or  drawn  in  carts  behind \
them.  There  were  omnibuses  too,  of  a  peculiar \
kind,  filled  with  people,  and  a  kind  of  carriage \
called  a  calash,  which  consisted  of  a  sort  of \
chaise,  with  an  extended  frame  for  people  to  stand \
upon  all  around  it.  The  first  class  passengers  in \
these  calashes  had  seats  in  the  chaise  itself.  The \
others  stood  up  all  around,  and  clung  on  as  best \
they  could  to  the  back  of  the  seat  before  them. \
\
Our  party  met  a  great  many  of  these  calashes \
coming  into  town,  and  bringing  in  loads  of \
country  people. \
\
"  It  is  astonishing,"  said  Hollo,  "  that  one  horse \
can  draw  so  many  people." \
\
"  It  is  because  the  road  is  so  level  and  smooth," \
said  Mr.  George.  "  The  wheels  run  almost  as \
easy  upon  it  as  they  would  upon  a  railroad." \
\
After  going  on  in  this  manner  for  about  an \
hour,  \'97  all  the  time  gently  ascending,  and  pass- \
ing through  what  seemed  to  be  a  continued  suc- \
cession of  villages  and  towns,  \'97  the  carriage \
stopped  before  the  door  of  a  kind  of  inn  in  the \
\
\
GOING    UP.  113 \
\
\
The  party  arrive  at  Herculaneuiu. \
\
\
midst  of  a  crowded  street.  The  moment  that \
the  carriage  stopped,  it  seemed  to  be  surrounded \
by  a  crowd  of  ostlers,  donkeys  and  donkey \
drivers,  ragged  boys  and  beggars  ;  and  sucli  a \
clamor  arose  from  the  crowd  as  was  quite  ap- \
palling to  hear,  the  more  so  as  nothing  could  be \
understood  of  what  was  said,  since  it  was  all  in \
Italian. \
\
"  What  is  here  ?  "  said  Mr.  George  to  Philippe, \
when  he  saw  that  Philippe  was  getting  down  from \
the  box. \
\
"  This  is  Herculaneum,"  said  Philippe,  quietly. \
\
"  Herculaneum  I  "  repeated  Rosie,  amazed. \
"  Why,  I  thought  Herculaneum  was  all  under \
ground." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  it  is.  He  means \
that  this  is  where  we  go  down." \
\
By  this  time  Philippe  had  opened  the  carriage \
door.  Mr.  George  got  out,  and  then  helped  Mrs. \
Gray  to  descend.  A  half  a  dozen  beggars,  some \
lame,  some  blind,  some  old  and  paralytic,  hovered \
about  the  steps,  and  held  out  tattered  hats  to  Mrs. \
Gray,  moaning  all  the  time  in  piteous  tones,  and \
begging  for  alms.  Mrs.  Gray  and  Mr.  George \
paid  no  attention  to  them,  but  passed  directly \
on,  followed  by  the  children,  through  a  door  in  a \
high  wall,  which  led  into  a  little  court,  and \
thence  they  passed  into  a  sort  of  entrance  hall, \
\
\
114  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
The  descent  to  Herculaneum. \
\
\
leading  into  a  building.  Philippe,  who  had  pre- \
ceded them,  opened  a  closet,  and  took  out  some \
small  candles.  He  lighted  these  candles  by  means \
of  a  lamp  hanging  against  the  wall,  and  gave  one \
to  each  of  the  party.  There  was  an  open  door \
near,  with  a  broad  flight  of  stone  steps  leading \
down,  like  stairs  going  down  cellar.  As  soon  as \
the  candles  were  all  lighted,  the  children  heard \
somebody  coming  up  these  stairs.  It  was  a  party \
of  visitors  that  had  been  down,  and  were  now \
coming  up.  There  were  eight  or  ten  of  them, \
and  the  appearance  of  them  as  they  came  up,  fol- \
lowing each  other  in  a  long  line,  each  carrying \
his  candle  in  his  hand,  produced  a  very  strange \
and  picturesque  effect. \
\
The  guide  who  came  up  at  the  head  of  them \
exchanged  a  few  words  with  Philippe  in  Italian, \
and  then  Philippe  went  on,  leading  his  own  party \
down  the  stairs.  The  stairs  were  wide,  so  that \
there  was  abundant  room  for  the  two  parties  to \
pass  each  other. \
\
After  going  down  some  way,  and  making  one \
or  two  turnings,  suddenly  a  light  began  to  appear. \
It  was  a  light  like  the  light  of  day.  It  grew \
brighter  and  brighter,  until  at  length  Mr. \
George  and  Rollo,  who  were  at  the  head  of  the \
party,  after  Philippe,  came  out  under  a  large  cir- \
cular opening  cut  in  the  rock,  through  which \
\
\
GOING  UP.  115 \
\
\
Plants  growing. \
\
\
they  could  look  up  to  the  open  air,  and  to  the \
sky. \
\
"  This  is  the  well/'  said  Philippe  ;  "  the  well \
that  they  were  digging  when  they  first  came  upon \
the  ruins." \
\
The  sides  of  the  well  were  of  solid  lava, \
smooth  and  hard,  just  as  they  had  been  left  by \
the  workmen  in  digging  down. \
\
The  light  which  came  down  through  the  well \
shone  upon  a  sort  of  platform,  which,  as  well  as \
the  walls  around  it,  was  covered  with  moss  and \
other  green  plants,  which  had  been  induced \
to  vegetate  there  by  the  rain  and  the  sunlight \
that  had  come  down  through  the  well.  Mrs. \
Gray  gathered  some  of  these  plants,  and  put \
them  into  her  book. \
\
The  party  then  went  on  down  another  flight \
of  steps,  which  led  into  a  series  of  dark,  vaulted \
chambers,  all  hewn  out  of  the  rock.  By  holding \
^the  candles  up  to  the  sides  of  these  chambers, \
the  party  could  see  here  and  there  the  remains \
of  old  arches,  columns,  and  walls,  which  had  been \
buried  up  in  the  lava,  but  were  now  partially \
disinterred. \
\
These  remains  were  part  of  an  ancient  theatre  ; \
and  after  passing  through  several  gloomy  pas- \
sages, the  party  came  to  a  large  chamber,  where \
the  whole  front  of  the  stage  had  been  brought  to \
\
\
116  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  two  bronze  statues.  The  pavement.  English. \
\
view.  Before  it,  in  a  range,  were  the  seats  for \
the  musicians.  On  each  side  there  was  a  massive \
pedestal.  The  guide  said  that  there  were  two \
bronze  statues  on  these  pedestals  when  the  place \
was  first  excavated,  but  that  they  had  been  taken \
away,  and  were  now  deposited  in  the  museum  at \
Naples. \
\
"  We  shall  see  them  there,  I  suppose,"  said \
Mr.  George,  "  when  we  go  to  visit  the  museum." \
\
"  I  shall  take  great  interest  in  seeing  them," \
said  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
In  some  places  the  old  pavement  of  the  theatre \
had  been  laid  bare,  and  was  plainly  to  be  seen \
by  holding  the  candles  down  cjose  to  the  ground. \
In  other  places  the  painting  on  the  walls  had \
been  found,  with  the  colors  quite  fresh. \
\
"  These  must  be  places  that  the  hot  lava  did \
not  come  to,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  I  suppose  so,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
It  was  not  possible  to  obtain  any  information \
from  the  guide,  for  he  could  speak  no  language \
but  the  Italian,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  Eng- \
lish words  and  phrases,  which  he  pronounced  in \
so  outlandish  a  manner,  and  mingled  them  up \
so  much  with  his  Neapolitan  dialect,  that  it  was \
very  difficult  to  recognize  them. \
\
"  Questa  vindow  ;  vindow  orizhinalle,"  he \
would  say,  meaning  that  the  opening  that  he  was \
\
\
GOING    UP.  117 \
\
\
Mrs.  Gray  takes  the  forward  seat  in  the  carriage. \
\
pointing  to  was  one  of  the  original  windows  of \
the  edifice.  And  then  he  would  go  on  with  a \
long  sentence  in  the  Neapolitan  dialect,  which  was \
perfectly  unintelligible  from  beginning  to  end \
\
At  length  the  exploration  was  ended,  and  the \
whole  party  ascended  again  to  the  surface  of  the \
ground.  The  guide  took  the  candles  from  their \
hands  as  they  came  up,  and  Philippe  paid  him \
his  fee.  Mr.  George  led  the  way  to  the  carriage, \
which  was  still  waiting  at  the  door.  It  was \
surrounded,  as  before,  with  poor  children  and \
beggars,  who  set  up  a  loud  clamor  for  alms  as \
soon  as  the  party  made  their  appearance. \
\
Mr.  George  took  no  notice  of  them,  but \
opened  the  door  for  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  to  get \
in.  They  got  in,  and  Mrs.  Gray  took  her  place \
on  the  forward  seat  of  the  carriage,  \'97  that  is, \
with  her  back  to  the  horses,  \'97  and  Rosie  sat \
down  by  the  side  of  her. \
\
"  The  other  is  your  seat,  Mrs.  Gray,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  No,"  said  Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  we  are  going  to  ride \
here  now,  and  let  you  and  the  boys  have  the  back \
seat." \
\
"  0,  no,  Mrs.  Gray,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  please \
take  the  back  seat." \
\
"  By  and  by  I  will,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  but  not \
now." \
\
\
118  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mrs.  Gray's  reasoning  on  the  subject. \
\
So  Mr.  George  and  the  two  boys  got  in  and \
took  the  back  seat,  which  was  a  great  deal  bet- \
ter than  the  forward  seat,  as  it  afforded  so  much \
better  opportunity  to  see. \
\
All  this  was  done  in  a  moment,  and  Philippe, \
after  shutting  the  door  and  mounting  the  box \
with  the  coachman,  gave  the  order  to  drive  on. \
\
"  I  think  you  and  Rosie  ought  to  have  this  seat, \
Mrs.  Gray,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  I  have  had  that  seat  already  for  an  hour," \
said  Mrs.  Gray.  "There  is  no  reason  why  I \
should  have  it  all  the  time." \
\
"  Why,  yes,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  because  you  are  a \
lady." \
\
"  My  being  a  lady  is  a  very  good  reason  why \
the  gentlemen  should  always  offer  me  the  best \
seat,"  said  Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  but  it  is  no  reason  why \
I  should  always  take  it.  Indeed,  it  is  a  very \
good  reason  why  I  should  not ;  for  it  is  not  at \
all  ladylike  to  be  monopolizing  and  selfish  in \
respect  to  good  seats  and  good  places  when  there \
is  any  thing  to  see." \
\
Mr.  George  did  not  care  a  great  deal  about \
the  difference  in  the  seats,  but  he  was  so  much \
pleased  with  the  disinterested  and  considerate \
spirit  which  Mrs.  Gray  manifested  in  this  case, \
that  he  secretly  resolved  that  he  would  invite  her \
and  Rosie  to  accompany  him  on  every  excursion \
that  he  made. \
\
\
GOING   UP.  119 \
\
\
The  zigzag  road.  Extensive  views.  The  bay. \
\
The  road  now  left  the  shore,  and  soon  began  to \
ascend  the  mountain,  winding  this  way  and  that  in \
long  zigzags,  through  rich  vineyards  and  groves \
of  mulberry  trees,  all  planted  on  soil  which  had \
been  formed  during  the  lapse  of  ages  from  the \
disintegration  and  decay  of  the  lava  which  had \
come  down  from  the  volcano  above.  This  land \
was  very  fertile  ;  and  as  both  the  soil  itself  and \
the  rocks  from  which  it  was  formed  were  of  a \
rich  brown  color,  .the  country  looked  even  more \
fertile  than  it  really  was.  The  road  was  excel- \
lent. Indeed,  as  Philippe  had  said,  it  was  as \
hard  and  smooth  as  a  floor.  It  was  macadamized \
all  the  way,  being  made  of  lava,  broken  small, \
and  so  compacted  together,  and  worn  so  hard  and \
smooth  by  the  wheels  that  had  gone  over  it,  and \
by  the  feet  of  the  horses  and  mules,  that  it \
seemed  one  continuous  surface  of  stone. \
\
The  views  on  every  side  were  of  course  con- \
tinually enlarging  and  expanding  the  higher \
the  carriage  ascended,  and  as,  in  the  long  wind- \
ings and  zigzags  of  the  road,  the  heads  of  the \
horses  were  turning  continually  into  different  di- \
rections, each  person  in  the  carriage,  without \
changing  his  seat,  or  even  turning  his  head,  had \
all  the  different  views  presented  successively  be- \
fore him. \
\
The  whole  expanse  of  the  Bay  of  Naples  was \
\
\
120  KOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Naples  and  the  Castle  of  St.  Elmo.  Immense  valleys. \
\
coming  continually  more  and  more  fully  into \
view,  with  the  mountainous  islands  in  the  offing, \
which  border  it  towards  the  sea,  and  a  long  line \
of  hamlets,  villages,  and  towns,  extending,  like \
a  white  fringe  upon  a  green  mantle,  along  the \
curve  of  the  shore.  Naples  was  seen  in  the \
distance,  with  the  great  Castle  of  St.  Elmo  on  a \
rocky  summit  above  it. \
\
Towards  the  mountain  the  travellers  could  see \
lofty  peaks,  with  immense  valleys  between  them. \
These  valleys  were  extremely  fertile  and  beauti- \
ful, except  where  recent  streams  of  lava  had \
flowed  through  them ;  that  is,  lava  which  had \
issued  from  the  mountain  within  a  few  hundred \
years.  From  the  road  where  the  carriage  was \
now  moving,  the  party  could  look  down  upon  the \
beds  of  these  streams,  and  as  the  lava  had  already \
become  partially  decomposed,  they  looked  like \
immense  fields  of  rich  brown  soil  turned  up  by \
the  plough.  These  valleys,  by  which  the  moun- \
tain sides  were  furrowed,  were  so  large,  and  the \
streams  of  lava  in  the  beds  of  them  were  com- \
paratively so  small,  that  Mr.  George  said  he  did \
not  wonder  that  the  people  in  the  towns  along \
the  sea  shore  were  not  more  afraid  of  living  so \
near  the  mountain. \
\
"  There  is  room  enough  in  these  valleys,"  said \
he,  "  to  hold  the  lava  of  a  thousand  eruptions, \
before  they  would  be  filled  up." \
\
\
GOING  UP.  121 \
\
\
The  Hermitage.  Grounds  around  it.  The  crowd. \
\
At  length  the  carriage  arrived  at  the  Hermit- \
age. The  building  stood,  as  Hollo  had  seen  with \
his  opera  glass  from  the  balcony  of  the  hotel,  at \
the  outer  extremity  of  a  spur  of  the  mountain,  a \
mile  or  two  from  the  foot  of  the  great  cone. \
The  road  to  the  foot  of  the  great  cone  lay  along \
the  crest  of  the  ridge.  The  observatory,  which \
was  a  larger  and  handsomer  building,  stood  just \
above  and  beyond  it,  and  was  surrounded  with \
very  pretty  gardens. \
\
The  grounds  around  the  Hermitage  were  very \
fertile,  and  though  they  were  steep  and  broken, \
they  were  so  laid  out  in  vineyards  and  groves  of \
mulberry  trees,  and  the  sun  shone  upon  them  so \
pleasantly,  that  they  presented  a  very  attractive \
appearance.  The  Hermitage  was  a  plain,  but \
neat  stone  building,  massive  and  white,  with  a \
broad  area  before  it,  where  a  great  many  car- \
riages, and  also  a  great  many  donkeys  and  mules, \
all  saddled  and  bridled,  were  standing.  The \
carriage  drove  up  rapidly,  and  stopped  before \
the  door. \
\
Here  followed  another  noise  and  uproar,  from \
beggars,  musicians,  mule  and  donkey  men,  guides, \
and  boys,  who  gathered  about  the  carriage  in  a \
crowd  as  soon  as  it  stopped,  all  clamoring  for \
money  or  employment.  Mr.  George  paid  no  at- \
tention to  them,  but  assisting  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie \
\
\
122  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Adventures  of  the  party  at  the  Hermitage. \
\
to  descend,  he  led  the  way  into  the  house.  There \
was  a  boy  at  the  door  to  receive  him.  The  boy \
led  the  way  up  a  narrow  flight  of  stone  stairs  to  a \
sort  of  hall,  surrounded  on  every  side  by  massive \
walls  of  stone.  There  were  two  or  three  deso- \
late-looking rooms  opening  from  this  hall.  The \
room  doors  were  open.  The  floors  were  all  of \
stone.  There  were  tables  set  in  these  rooms,  and \
different  parties  were  seated  at  them,  partaking \
of  refreshments  that  they  had  brought  up  with \
them  in  their  carriages \'97  the  bags  and  baskets  in \
which  they  had  brought  them  up  lying  at  their \
feet. \
\
These  parties  were  waited  upon  by  the  monk, \
who  walked  about  among  the  guests,  bringing \
them  glasses,  knives  and  forks,  bottles  of  wine, \
and  any  thing  else  that  they  required.  He  was \
dressed  in  the  costume  of  his  order,  and  looked, \
as  Rosie  said,  precisely  like  the  pictures  of  monks \
which  she  had  see'n  in  books  in  America. \
\
Philippe  came  up  almost  immediately  after  his \
party,  bringing  with  him  his  basket  of  refresh- \
ments. He  soon  found  a  table  that  was  unoccu- \
pied, and  having  placed  chairs  around  it,  he \
asked  the  monk  to  bring  some  glasses  and  some \
knives  and  forks. \
\
"  And  now,'7  said  he,  addressing  Mr.  George, \
"  if  you  will  take  some  refreshment  here,  I  will \
\
\
GOING  UP.  123 \
\
\
The  portautinas.  Kosie  takes  her  seat. \
\
go  and  make  the  preparations  for  continuing  the \
ascent.  I  will  come  up  again  as  soon  as  we  are \
ready." \
\
So  Philippe  went  away.  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie \
sat  down  at  the  table,  but  the  boys  began  to \
ramble  about  in  the  hall  and  in  the  rooms,  to  see \
what  was  to  be  seen,  taking  care,  however,  to  go \
now  and  then  to  the  table  to  get  fresh  pieces  of \
bread  and  butter,  and  oranges,  so  as  to  keep  them- \
selves well  supplied  with  provisions  all  the  time. \
\
In  about  fifteen  minutes  Philippe  came  up,  and \
said  that  the  arrangements  were  made,  and  then \
the  whole  party  went  down  stairs.  There  were \
two  portantinas  at  the  door,  all  ready.  The \
men  \'97  an  extremely  rough-looking  set \'97 stood \
beside  them. \
\
"  Now,  Rosie,'7  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  you  may  get \
into  yours  first,  so  that  I  may  see  how  you  do  it." \
\
Philippe  spread  a  shawl  over  the  chair  which \
Rosie  was  to  go  in,  and  Rosie  took  her  seat. \
Four  of  the  men  then  took  hold  of  the  ends  of \
the  poles,  and  first  with  a  lift,  and  then  a  gentle \
toss,  they  raised  it  up  to  their  shoulders.  Rosie \
was  a  little  frightened  when  she  found  herself \
going  up  so  high  into  the  air ;  but  when  the  ends \
of  the  poles  came  down  gently  upon  the  men's \
shoulders  and  rested  there,  she  felt  reassured,  and \
she  looked  down  upon  her  mother  with  a  smile. \
\
\
124  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Rosie  likes  the  portantiua.  The  party.  Refreshment  man. \
\
"  How  do  yo u  feel  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  Beautifully/7  said  Rosie. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  then  took  her  seat  in  her  chair,  and \
the  bearers  lifted  her  up  upon  their  shoulders  in \
the  same  way.  Both  sets  of  bearers  set  off  im- \
mediately. \
\
Rollo  and  Josie  then  mounted  two  donkeys, \
which  Philippe  had  provided  for  them,  while  Mr. \
George  set  out  on  foot.  In  this  order  the  party \
moved  in  quite  a  long  procession  from  the  area \
before  the  Hermitage,  and  began  to  follow  the \
winding  path  which  led  along  the  crest  of  the \
ridge  towards  the  foot  of  the  cone.  There  were \
in  all  nearly  thirty  persons,  thus  :  \'97 \
\
Travellers, 5 \
\
Portantina  bearers,  8  to  each  chair,  16 \
Donkey  drivers,  ....  2 \
Strapmen,  .  .  .  .2 \
\
Refreshment  man,  ...       1 \
\
Guide,  .        .        .        ...        .1 \
\
27 \
\
The  refreshment  man  carried  the  provisions, \
which  he  hoped  to  sell  to  the  party  by  the  way, \
in  a  basket  poised  upon  his  head. \
\
The  procession  moved  on  in  this  order,  along \
a  rough  and  narrow  mule  path,  for  nearly  an  hour. \
\
\
GOING  UP.  125 \
\
\
The  party  draw  near  to  the  foot  of  the  cone. \
\
\
In  some  parts  of  the  way  the  road  was  pretty \
nearly  level  ;  in  others  it  was  extremely  broken \
and  steep,  where  it  passed  across  old  streams  of \
lava.  Before  them  the  travellers  could  see,  all \
the  way,  the  immense  cone,  which  formed  the \
summit  of  the  mountain,  rising  into  the  sky. \
They  saw  that  they  were  gradually  drawing \
nearer  and  nearer  to  the  foot  of  it,  and  on \
looking  up  they  could  see  another  party,  which \
had  preceded  them  in  making  the  ascent,  slowly \
toiling  their  way  up  the  rocky  steep,  while,  at  a \
little  distance  on  one  side,  another  party  were \
seen  descending  by  a  different  path,  which  was \
seen  winding  down  circuitously  at  a  part  of  the \
mountain  where  the  slope  was  formed  of  sand. \
\
At  length  Rollo  saw  at  a  distance  before  him  a \
level  place  among  the  trees,  very  near  the  foot  of \
the  great  cone.  This  he  knew  at  once  must  be \
the  halting  place. \
\
"  Uncle  George,"  said  he,  "  we  are  coming  to \
the  end  of  our  ride." \
\
"  Are  we  ?  "  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"Yes,"  said  Rollo.  "Do  you  see  all  those \
mules  and  donkeys  there,  standing  together \
among  the  rocks  and  trees  ?  That  must  be  the \
halting  place  at  the  foot  of  the  cone." \
\
Rollo  was  right.  As  soon  as  he  and  Josie  ar- \
rived at  this  place,  the  donkey  boys  stopped  the \
\
\
126  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Rosie  decides  to  ascend  the  cone. \
\
\
donkeys,  and  held  them  by  the  head  for  the  riders \
to  dismount.  The  bearers  of  the  portautinas \
stopped  too,  to  change  hands. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  got  out  of  her  chair  as  soon  as  the \
men  put  it  down,  and  went  to  Rosie's  chair  to \
ask  Rosie  how  she  had  got  along. \
\
"  Very  well  indeed, ';  said  Rosie.  "  I  like  it \
very  much." \
\
"Does  your  courage  hold  out  to  go  up  the \
cone  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  0,  yes,  mother,"  said  Rosie  ;  "  and  I  wish \
you  would  go  up  too." \
\
"  No,"  replied  Mrs.  Gray  ;  *"  I  will  go  back  to \
the  Hermitage,  and  wait  there  until  you  come \
down.  But  you  may  go  up  if  you  wish,  and  if \
Mr.  George  is  willing  to  take  you." \
\
Mr.  George  said  that  he  should  like  to  have \
Rosie  go  very  much,  and  he  promised  to  take \
special  care  of  her.  So  the  new  bearers  lifted \
her  up  upon  their  shoulders  again,  and  the  strap- \
men  that  Philippe  had  provided  came  with  their \
straps  to  Rollo  and  Josie.  Mr.  George  took  a \
cane  which  one  of  the  boys  provided  him  with, \
and  thus  the  party  began  the  ascent  of  the  cone. \
\
Rollo  found,  after  a  wliile,  that  he  did  not  need \
the  strapmen  ;  so  he  let  Josie  have  them  both. \
Josie  put  his  staff  through  the  loops  of  the \
straps,  and  took  hold  of  the  ends  of  it,  while  the \
\
\
GOING  UP.  129 \
\
\
Order  of  procession.  The  bearers.  Mr.  George's  composure. \
\
men  walked  before  him,  and  pulled  him  up  the \
rocks. \
\
Rollo  kept  ahead.  He  climbed  faster  than  the \
rest  of  the  train,  but  he  stopped  now  and  then \
on  some  projecting  mass  of  lava  to  wait  for  them \
to  come  up.  Next  to  Rollo  came  Josie,  with  the \
two  strapmen  pulling  him  up  by  their  straps. \
Then  the  refreshment  man,  with  his  basket  of \
provisions  on  his  head.  Last  of  all  came  the \
bearers  of  the  portantina,  with  Rosie  in  the  chair. \
Mr.  George  followed  immediately  after.  He \
kept  close  to  Rosie  all  the  way,  for  he  thought \
she  would  be  afraid  to  be  left  alone  with  such \
wild  and  rough-looking  men. \
\
Indeed,  she  doubtless  would  have  been  afraid, \
for  the  men  were  rough  and  wild  in  their  de- \
meanor, as  well  as  in  their  looks.  They  made  a \
great  deal  of  noise,  shouting  and  scolding  all  the \
way.  Every  now  and  then  they  would  stop  to \
rest,  and  then  they  would  clamor  for  buono  marios, \
sometimes  begging  for  the  money  in  very  earnest \
and  noisy,  but  suppliant  tones,  and  sometimes  de- \
manding it  in  a  very  loud  and  threatening  man- \
ner. Mr.  George,  however,  paid  no  heed  to \
these  requests,  but  steadily  refused  to  give  the \
men  any  money,  saying  simply  that  Philippe \
would  pay.  At  length  the  men,  finding  that \
Mr.  George  was  cool  and  collected,  and  that  he \
\
\
130  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Effect  of  it  upon  the  bearers.  They  all  reach  the  summit. \
\
did  not  seem  to  be  at  all  intimidated  by  their \
violent  and  boisterous  demeanor,  became  quiet, \
and  performed  their  duty  in  a  more  steady  and \
orderly  manner. \
\
The  party  went  on  climbing  in  this  way  for \
nearly  an  hour,  and  finally  reached  the  summit. \
\
\
THE    SUMMIT.  131 \
\
The  bearers  make  fresh  demands.  "  Philippe  payera." \
\
\
CHAPTER   VII. \
THE  SUMMIT. \
\
ON  coming  out  upon  the  brow  of  the  moun- \
tain, Rollo  saw  at  a  short  distance  before  him  an \
immense  column  of  dense  white  vapor  pouring \
up  into  the  air.  His  first  impulse  was  to  run \
forward  up  the  sandy  slope  that  still  remained \
between  the  place  where  he  stood  and  the  mar- \
gin of  the  crater  ;  but  he  checked  himself,  and \
stopped  where  he  was,  to  wait  for  the  rest  of  the \
party.  As  soon  as  the  portantina  bearers \
reached  the  place  where  he  stood,  they  set  down \
the  chair,  and  immediately  the  whole  set  crowded \
around  Mr.  George,  and  again  demanded  buono \
manos. \
\
"  Philippe  pay  era"  said  Mr.  George,  pointing \
down  the  mountain  to  the  Hermitage \'97 "  Philippe \
payera,  Id  has"  which  means,  "Philippe  will \
pay  when  you  go  down.''* \
\
Mr.  George  said  this  in  a  very  quiet  manner, \
and  then  proceeded  to  help  Rosie  out  of  her \
chair.  The  guide  who  had  come  up  the  moun- \
\
\
132  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Theory  of  the  formation  of  craters. \
\
tain  with  them  then  led  the  way,  and  Mr.  George, \
Rollo,  Rosie  and  Josie  followed,  towards  the \
crater. \
\
And  here  I  must  stop  a  moment  in  my  story  to \
explain  a  little  what  a  crater  is,  and  how  it  is \
formed.  A  crater  is  a  great  circular  pit  or  de- \
pression in  the  top  of  a  volcano,  formed  by  the \
sinking  of  the  ground  in  that  part.  This  sinking \
of  the  ground  is  caused  apparently  by  the  cooling \
and  shrinking  of  the  melted  matter  below,  af- \
ter a  time  when  it  has  been  unusually  heated. \
\
Most  boys  have  observed  an  effect  similar  to \
this  in  casting  lead.  When  you  attempt  to  cast \
any  thing  of  lead,  \'97  a  cannon,  for  example,  or \
anchor,  or  even  a  bullet,  \'97 you  will  observe  that \
as  the  lead  cools,  the  portion  of  it  which  comes  at \
the  top  of  the  mould  shrinks  and  falls  in,  forming \
a  little  pit  or  depression,  which  you  have  to  fill \
up  by  pouring  in  a  little  more  lead.  The  reason \
is,  that  lead,  as  well  as  most  other  melted  sub- \
stances, shrinks  when  it  cools.  In  the  case  of  the \
bullet,  for  instance,  all  the  lead  which  forms  the \
mass  of  the  bullet  within  the  mould  shrinks. \
The  effect  of  this  would  be  to  collapse  the  sides, \
were  it  not  that  the  sides  have  already  become \
solid  by  contact  with  the  cold  mould.  But  the \
lead  at  the  top,  having  been  poured  in  last,  is  still \
fluid  ;  and  so  that  settles  down  as  the  lead  cools \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  133 \
\
Nature  of  the  explosions.  The  ejected  lava. \
\
below,  and  forms  the  little  pit  or  depression, \
which  the  boy  presently  fills  up  by  pouring  in  a \
little  more  lead. \
\
It  is  much  the  same  with  a  volcano.  For  some \
reason  or  other,  \'97  no  one  as  yet  knows  what  it \
is,  \'97  the  interior  of  a  volcano  changes  its  tem- \
perature very  much  at  different  times.  Some- \
times for  a  period  of  several  months,  or  years,  it \
seems  to  be  all  the  time  growing  hotter  and  hot- \
ter. The  substances  below  become  more  and \
more  melted,  and  formed  into  lava.  The  water, \
which  is  all  the  time  filtering  in  through  the \
crevices  and  openings,  in  the  rocks  around  the \
sides  of  the  mountain,  is  forced  down  under  this \
molten  mass  by  the  immense  pressure  given  to \
it  by  the  height  of  the  mountain.  There  it  is \
turned  into  steam.  For  a  time  it  is  kept  down \
by  the  vast  weight  of  the  lava  which  is  over  it, \
but  after  a  time  the  elastic  force  of  it  gets  so \
great  that  a  bubble  of  it  bursts  up,  and  comes  out \
at  the  top  of  the  mountain  in  a  great,  thundering \
puff,  bringing  up  some  portion  of  the  melted \
lava  with  it,  and  throwing  it  high  into  the  air. \
\
The  lava  thus  thrown  up  falls  down  again,  and \
when  there  is  no  wind  it  falls  down  close  around \
the  opening.  Some  of  it  falls  into  the  opening, \
where  it  is  melted  again.  The  rest  falls  on  the \
sides,  and  in  process  of  time  it  begins  to  build \
\
\
134  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Effects  of  the  gradual  cooling  of  the  mountain. \
\
up  a  small  hill,  as  it  were,  all  around  the  open- \
ing, though  the  puffs  and  explosions  of  steam  that \
are  continually  coming  out  keep  a  mouth  open  at \
the  top. \
\
Things  go  on  in  this  way  for  some  time,  until \
at  length,  for  some  mysterious  reason  which  no- \
body understands,  the  interior  of  the  mountain \
begins  to  moderate  its  heat,  and  finally  to  grow \
cool  \'97  not  entirely  cool,  but  cooler  than  it  has \
been.  The  puffs  and  explosions  gradually  cease. \
The  lava  within  the  bowels  of  the  mountain \
shrinks  as  it  cools.  The  sides  of  the  mountain \
being  firm  and  solid,  do  not  collapse ;  but  the  top, \
being  still  more  or  less  soft,  falls  in,  not  suddenly, \
but  by  a  slow  and  gradual  motion,  correspond- \
ing with  the  progress  of  the  cooling  below.  So \
slow,  indeed,  is  this  progress,  that  sometimes  the \
ground  continues  sinking  slowly  in  this  way  for \
several  years  before  the  crater  is  fully  formed. \
\
All  this  time,  although  the  puffs  arid  explosions \
have  in  a  great  measure  ceased,  the  steam  con- \
tinues to  blow  out,  more  or  less  steadily,  from  a \
great  many  small  openings,  some  of  them  in  the \
bottom  of  the  crater,  and  some,  perhaps,  in  the \
sides.  This  steam  is  changed  into  visible  vapor \
when  it  comes  out  where  the  air  is  cool,  and  the \
several  streams,  mingling  together  as  they  rise  into \
the  air,  form  a  cloudy  column,  which  is  often \
\
\
THE    SUMMIT.  135 \
\
\
Manner  in  which  the  small  cones  are  formed. \
\
\
called  smoke.  Strictly  speaking,  however,  it  is \
not  smoke.  It  is  almost  entirely  composed  of \
steam. \
\
After  continuing  in  this  state  for  some  time, \
the  interior  of  the  mountain  begins  to  grow  hot \
again.  Then  the  steam  and  hot  lava  begin  to \
puff  out  at  some  one  or  other  of  the  vents  in  the \
bottom  of  the  crater.  If  the  heating  goes  on, \
the  lava  comes  out  hotter  and  hotter  from  the \
opening,  and  by  melting  away  the  sides  of  it  and \
blowing  it  out,  it  gradually  enlarges  it.  The \
lava  that  is  blown  out,  too,  falls  down  all  around \
the  hole,  and  gradually  builds  up  a  mound  around \
it,  like  a  little  dome,  while  the  successive  blasts \
keep  the  outlet  open  all  the  time  at  the  top. \
This  small  cone,  rising  up  gradually  thus,  in  the \
bottom  of  the  crater  formed  by  the  sinking  in  of \
the  mountain  before,  and  the  chimney  opening \
up  through  the  centre  of  it,  gives  vent  to  all  the \
steam  from  below,  while  a  great  many  of  the \
other  orifices  are  stopped  up  by  the  lava  which \
comes  up  out  of  the  great  opening  falling  into \
them.  After  a  time,  the  lava  that  is  thrown  out \
spreads  over  the  whole  floor  of  the  crater  in  a \
mass  of  black,  corrugated  slag,  with  the  small \
cone  rising  from  the  centre  of  it,  and  the  opening \
at  the  top  glowing  like  the  mouth  of  a  fiery  fur- \
nace, and  bursting  out  every  now  and  then,  with \
\
\
136  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  party  advance  to  the  edge  of  the  crater. \
\
explosions  of  steam,  and  red-hot  stones,  and \
melted  lava. \
\
This  was  precisely  the  condition  of  Vesuvius \
at  the  time  that  Rollo  visited  it.  The  top  of  the \
mountain  had  fallen  in,  in  two  places,  some  time \
before,  qn  account  of  the  cooling  below,  and  two \
great  craters  had  been  formed.  Now,  the  fur- \
nace had  been  for  some  time  heating  up  again, \
and  in  each  crater  a  black  cone,  with  a  fiery \
mouth  open  at  the  apex  of  it,  was  gradually \
growing  up,  and  covering  the  whole  floor  of  the \
crater  with  the  black  and  molten  matter  which  it \
was  ejecting. \
\
It  was  to  the  edge  of  one  of  these  craters  that \
the  party  now  advanced,  and  the  engraving  will \
give  you  some  idea  of  the  view  which  it  pre- \
sented. \
\
There  were  several  persons,  both  ladies  and \
gentlemen,  standing  on  the  margin  of  the  crater \
when  our  party  arrived.  Mr.  George  led  Rosie \
to  the  place,  and  looked  down  with  her  into  the \
abyss.  The  sides  of  it  were  formed  of  precipi- \
tous cliffs  of  rocks  and  sand,  all  beautifully  col- \
ored, in  every  shade  of  red  and  yellow,  by  the \
deposits  of  sulphur  which  had  accumulated  upon \
them  from  the  fumes  of  the  volcano.  The  floor \
of  the  crater  was  black  as  jet,  being  covered  by \
the  molten  lava,  which  had  gradually  spread  over \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  139 \
\
Action  of  the  cone.  Rosie  is  at  first  afraid. \
\
it.  The  surface  of  this  lava  lay  in  wave-like \
corrugations,  like  the  hide  of  a  rhinoceros,  show- \
ing that  it  was  or  had  been  semi-fluid.  In  the \
centre  rose  a  great,  black,  rounded  cone,  like  the \
cupola  of  an  immense  blast  furnace.  This  cone \
was  about  fifty  feet  high,  and  there  was  an  open- \
ing at  the  top  eight  or  ten  feet  in  diameter, \
which  glowed  with  a  furious  heat,  and  emitted \
quietly,  but  continually,  a  red-hot  breath  of  sul- \
phurous vapor. \
\
After  remaining  thus  quiet  for  a  few  moments, \
suddenly  it  would  give  a  gasp,  and  immediately \
afterwards  there  would  burst  forth  a  thundering \
explosion,  which  seemed  to  come  up  from  a  great \
depth  below,  and  threw  into  the  air  a  shower  of \
stones  and  scraps  of  molten  lava,  which,  after  as- \
cending to  a  great  height,  came  down  again,  and \
fell,  with  a  dripping  sound,  upon  and  around  the \
cone.  Similar  explosions  occurred  at  intervals \
of  a  few  minutes,  all  the  time  that  the  party \
remained. \
\
Rosie  was  at  first  very  much  afraid  of  these  ex- \
plosions, and  she  wished  to  go  back.  Mr.  George \
himself  was  also  afraid  at  first  to  stand  very  near \
the  edge  of  the  crater  ;  but  it  was  not  on  account \
of  the  explosions,  but  for  fear  that  the  cliff  might \
cave  in.  Indeed,  the  cliffs  all  around  were \
cracked  off,  and  in  some  places  leaning  over, \
\
\
140  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Crevices  in  the  cliffs.  Rosie  afraid.  Walls  of  the  ci-aUr. \
\
apparently  ready  to  fall  ;  and  even  at  the  spot \
where  the  spectators  stood  looking  into  the  cra- \
ter, there  was  a  fissure  running  along  parallel  to \
the  cliff,  some  feet  behind  them.  At  first  Mr. \
George  was  afraid  to  step  over  this  crack. \
\
"  How  do  they  know,"  said  he  to  himself,  "  but \
that  the  whole  mass  will  fall  and  carry  them  all \
down  into  the  gulf  below  ?  " \
\
He  found,  however,  after  waiting  a  little  while, \
that  it  did  not  fall,  and  there  were  besides  other \
masses  a  little  farther  along,  as  seen  in  the  en- \
graving, which  had  become  separated  entirely \
from  the  cliff  behind  them,  leaving  a  chasm  open \
two  or  three  feet  wide ;  and  yet  they  did  not  fall. \
So  Mr.  George  gradually  acquired  more  con- \
fidence, and  at  length  went  cautiously  forward, \
and  looked  over  the  brink. \
\
Rosie,  however,  hung  back.  She  was  alarmed \
to  see  Rollo  and  Josie  go  so  near. \
\
"  Come  back,  Josie,"  said  she ;  "  come  back. \
You  must  not  go  so  near." \
\
So  Mr.  George  called  the  boys  back,  and  they \
obeyed. \
\
The  walls  of  this  crater  were  on  every  side \
almost  perpendicular.  As  the  central  part  had \
gradually  sunk,  the  sides  had  caved  off  and  fallen \
in,  and  then  afterwards  the  lava  that  had  been \
thrown  up  had  spread  over  the  floor,  and  covered \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  141 \
\
The  party  stand  on  the  brink  of  the  crater. \
\
it  with  a  bed  of  a  half-fluid  looking  substance, \
that  was  as  black  as  pitch,  and  which,  though  it \
was  really  now  pretty  hard,  looked  as  if  a  stone \
thrown  down  upon  it  would  sink  immediately \
into  it,  out  of  sight. \
\
The  crater  seemed  to  be  four  or  five  hundred \
feet  across,  and  the  walls  of  it  were  eighty  or  a \
hundred  feet  high. \
\
After  Mr.  George  and  the  children  had  been \
standing  upon  the  brink  of  this  abyss  some  time, \
watching  the  explosions,  the  guide  who  had  come \
up  with  them  from  the  Hermitage  beckoned  to \
Mr.  George,  and  saying  something  at  the  same \
time  in  Italian,  made  signs  as  if  he  wished  the \
party  to  go  with  him  to  some  other  place. \
\
"  Come,  boys,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  he  wants  us \
to  go  with  him." \
\
"  Where  does  he  want  us  to  go  ? "  asked \
Rollo. \
\
"  I  don't  know,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  I  cannot \
understand  what  he  says  ;  but  let  us  go  and  see." \
\
So  the  whole  party  followed  the  guide,  Mr. \
George  leading  Rosie  by  the  hand.  The  guide \
conducted  them  along  a  narrow  path  through  the \
sand,  which  led  away  from  the  crater  behind  a \
hill  which  formed  one  of  the  sides  of  it  at  a  place \
where  it  was  so  steep  below  the  path  down  the \
mountain  side,  that  Rosie  was  almost'  afraid  to \
\
\
142  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  second  crater.  Path  leading  down  into  it. \
\
go.  Mr.  George,  however,  held  her  firmly  by \
the  hand,  and  he  charged  Rollo  and  Josie  to  fol- \
low very  carefully.  After  going  on  in  this  way \
for  some  distance,  they  came  to  another  crater \
very  similar  to  the  first,  only  the  sides  of  it,  in- \
stead of  being  formed,  like  the  first,  of  perpendic- \
ular cliffs,  consisted  of  steep,  sloping  banks  of \
volcanic  sand  and  gravel.  There  was,  however, \
the  same  pitchy  bed  of  lava  spread  out  all  over \
the  bottom  of  it  below,  and  in  the  centre  a  black \
cone  thirty  feet  high,  with  a  fiery  furnace  mouth \
at  the  top,  glowing  with  heat,  and  throwing  out \
continually  the  same  thundering  puffs  of  steam, \
and  projecting  the  same  masses  of  melted  lava \
and  hot  stones  into  the  air. \
\
"  Ah,  here  is  another  crater ! "  said  Mr.  George. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  only  it  is  smaller  than \
the  first.  I  like  the  first  the  best." \
\
While  they  were  standing  on  the  narrow  ridge \
which  formed  the  brink  of  the  crater,  looking \
down,  their  guide  by  their  side,  another  guide \
came  by,  conducting  two  young  men  ;  and  they, \
instead  of  stopping  on  the  brink,  as  Mr.  George \
and  his  party  had  done,  began  at  once  to  go  down. \
There  was  a  sort  of  track  in  the  sand  down  the \
slope,  and  in  this  track  the  young  men,  half  walk- \
ing, half  sliding,  descended. \
\
"  Why, uncle  George !  "  exclaimed  Rollo,"  they \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  143 \
\
Hollo  aud  Josie  descend  into  the  crater. \
\
are  going  down  into  the  crater.  Let  Josie  and \
me  go  too." \
\
Mr.  George  saw  by  a  glance  that  the  descent \
into  the  crater  must  be  safe,  for  the  young  men \
were  led  by  one  of  the  regular  mountain  guides  ; \
and  besides,  there  was  a  track  in  the  sand,  show- \
ing that  other  parties  had  gone  down  before. \
So  he  said  that  Rollo  and  Josie  might  go. \
\
"  You  may  go  down  with  this  party,"  said  Mr. \
George,  "  and  then  you  can  come  up  and  take \
care  of  Rosie  while  I  go  down  with  our \
guide." \
\
So  Rollo  and  Josie  followed  the  two  young \
men  down.  Mr.  George  watched  them  from \
above.  They  went  down  very  easily,  for  the  sand \
was  soft,  and  the  track  turned  this  way  and  that, \
so  as  to  avoid  the  steepest  places.  The  black \
lava  covered  the  whole  floor  of  the  crater,  and \
Mr.  George  and  Rosie  supposed  that  those  who \
had  gone  down  would  be  able  only  to  go  to  the \
edge  of  it ;  but,  to  their  great  surprise,  they  found \
that  the  guide,  as  soon  as  he  reached  it,  stepped \
upon  it,  and  walked  boldly  out,  followed  by  the \
young  men  and  by  Rollo  and  Josie,  like  a  party \
of  boys  walking  out  upon  the  ice  on  a  pond. \
\
"  Why,  uncle  George !  "  exclaimed  Rosie,  "  they \
are  walking  over  the  lava.  Why  don't  they \
sink  in  ?  " \
\
\
144  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  boys  walk  out  upon  the  bed  of  lava. \
\
"  I  cannot  imagine/7  said  Mr.  George.  "  I \
supposed  it  was  soft." \
\
In  fact,  it  was  soft ;  that  is,  it  was  soft  enough \
to  flow  if  it  had  been  on  a  slope,  but  yet  it  was \
hard  enough  to  walk  upon.  A  current  of  lava, \
when  it  is  coming  down  the  mountain  side,  can \
often  be  walked  upon  while  it  is  still  in  motion. \
Its  fluidity  at  the  best  is  very  imperfect,  and  its \
motion  is  very  slow.  The  lava  which  Rollo  was \
upon  in  the  floor  of  the  crater,  though  pretty \
nearly  cool  and  hard  on  the  surface,  was  hot  be- \
low. Rollo  could  see  the  redness  of  the  heat  in \
the  holes  and  crevices.  Probably,  if  a  heavy \
stone  were  laid  upon  the  bed  of  lava,  it  would \
gradually  have  sunk  into  it.  And  yet  persons \
could  walk  over  it  without  any  difficulty. \
\
Rollo  and  Josie  followed  the  young  men  over \
the  lava  until  they  came  so  near  the  cone  in  the \
centre  that  if  they  were  to  advance  farther  they \
would  be  in  danger  of  having  the  lava  which \
was  thrown  up  from  it  fall  upon  their  heads. \
Here  they  found  some  boys,  who  belonged  to  the \
mountain,  engaged  in  getting  out  small  pieces \
of  the  lava,  where  it  was  hot  and  soft,  and  press- \
ing coins  into  it,  to  sell  to  the  people  above. \
Rollo  and  Josie  bought  some  of  these  specimens \
of  flic  boys,  and  put  them  hot  in  their  pockets. \
\
While  the  boys  were  thus  near  the  cone  in  the \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  145 \
\
Mr.  George  depends  upon  the  judgment  of  the  giu'des. \
\
centre  of  the  crater,  they  were  sometimes  lost  to \
view  from  Mr.  George  and  Rosie.  on  account  of \
the  puffs  of  vapor  which  the  wind  blew  over \
them.  Rosie  was  very  much  afraid  whenever \
this  happened.  She  thought  that  Josie  and \
Rollo  were  lost ;  but  Mr.  George  assured  her \
that  there  was  no  danger. \
\
"  I  should  think  there  would  be  a  great  deal \
of  danger,"  said  she. \
\
"  So  should  I,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  of  my  own \
judgment.  But  I  do  not  go  by  my  own  judgment \
in  such  cases." \
\
"  Whose  judgment  do  you  go  by  ? "  asked \
Rosie. \
\
"  By  the  guides',"  replied  Mr.  George.  "  The \
guides  know  all  about  the  mountain.  They  are \
up  here  every  day.  They  have  been  watching  it \
for  years,  and  they  can  tell  where  it  is  safe  to  go, \
and  where  it  is  dangerous,  better  than  any  stran- \
ger. So  I  give  up  my  judgment  entirely,  and  go \
altogether  by  theirs.  You  will  see  Rollo  and  Jo- \
sie coming  back  out  of  the  smoke  pretty  soon, \
as  safe  as  they  went  in." \
\
This  prediction  proved  to  be  true.  In  a  few \
minutes,  on  account  of  some  change  in  the  gusts \
of  wind,  the  masses  of  vapor  in  the  crater  broke \
into  openings,  and  rolled  off  towards  the  other \
side,  and  in  the  openings  Rosie  could  see  the \
10 \
\
\
14:6  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Rosie  does  not  wish  to  go  down. \
\
boys  corning  back  over  the  black  surface  of  the \
lava,  their  footsteps  making  a  curious  sound  upon \
it,  as  if  they  were  walking  over  clinkers.  Very \
soon  they  reached  the  side,  and  then  came  toiling \
up  the  path  which  ascended  the  slope  of  sand. \
\
Hollo  and  Josie  were  both  full  of  enthusiasm \
in  describing  what  they  had  seen  at  the  bottom \
of  the  crater,  and  near  the  cone,  and  they \
strongly  recommended  to  Rosie  to  go  down  too. \
\
"  I'll  go  with  you,  Rosie,"  said  Josie,  "  and \
show  you  the  way." \
\
But  Rosie  declined  the  adventure,  and  Mr. \
George  told  her  that  she  did  right  to  do  so. \
\
"  Why,  what  is  there  to  be  afraid  of?  "  asked \
Josie.  "There  is  no  danger  \'97  not  the  least  in \
the  world." \
\
"  True,"  said  Mr.  George  ;  "  but  going  into  such \
places  does  not  give  so  much  pleasure  to  young \
ladies  as  it  does  to  such  courageous  young  gentle- \
men as  you.  But  I  wish  to  go  down  myself,  and \
I  will  leave  Rosie  under  your  care  here  while  I \
am  gone." \
\
Pretty  near  where  the  party  stood  while  en- \
gaged in  this  conversation,  several  persons  were \
gathered  about  what  seemed  to  be  a  fire.  A  sort \
of  smoke  came  up  from  the  ground  in  the  centre  of \
the  group,  and  by  the  side  of  it  were  one  or  two  bas- \
kets containing  eggs,  bread,  bottles  of  wine,  and \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  147 \
\
Cooking  by  volcanic  heat.  The  eggs. \
\
other  refreshments.  Mr.  George  led  the  way  to \
this  place,  and  then  he  found  that  what  seemed \
to  be  a  fire  was  really  a  jet  of  hot  steam  and \
sulphurous  gases  that  was  issuing  from  a  cleft \
among  the  rocks.  The  place  was  very  near  the \
crest  of  the  crater,  and  the  people  that  stood \
around  it  were  watching  to  see  men  cook  in  the \
jets  of  steam.  There  was  a  little  level  place \
inside  the  crevice,  just  beneath  the  ground,  where \
they  could  put  eggs  and  other  such  things,  and \
after  leaving  them  there  a  short  time,  they  were \
found  to  be  nicely  cooked.  As  fast  as  they  were \
done,  the  men  took  them  out  and  sold  them \
to  the  bystanders. \
\
Mr.  George  left  Rosie  and  the  two  boys  here \
while  he  went  down  into  the  crater.  The  guide \
went  with  him  to  show  him  the  way.  In  about \
ten  minutes  Mr.  George  returned,  and  found  the \
three  children  standing  round  the  cuisine,  as  the \
men  called  the  place  where  they  cooked.  Rollo \
had  been  buying  some  of  the  eggs,  and  he  and \
Josie  and  Rosie  were  eating  them. \
\
"  Mr.  George,"  said  Josie,  "  are  these  boiled \
eggs,  or  baked  eggs,  or  roasted  eggs,  or  what  ?  " \
\
"They  seem  to  be  steamed  eggs,"  said  Mr. \
George. \
\
"  I  suppose,"  said  Rollo,  "  that  by  digging  about \
here  in  the  sand,  we  might  find  a  place  where  it \
would  be  just  warm  enough  to  hatch  eggs." \
\
\
148  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  two  students  and  their  instrument. \
\
"  No  doubt,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
Just  then  Rollo  observed  that  the  two  young \
men  whom  he  and  Josie  had  followed  down  into \
the  crater  were  standing  at  a  little  distance,  and \
attentively  regarding  some  sort  of  instrument \
which  they  had  in  their  hands. \
\
"  I  mean  to  go  and  see  what  they  are  doing," \
said  Rollo. \
\
So  saying,  he  looked  into  Mr.  George's  face, \
and  waited  to  see  if  Mr.  George  had  any  objec- \
tion to  his  going. \
\
"  Very  well,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
So  Rollo  went  off  to  the  place  where  the \
young  men  were  standing,  and  soon  afterwards \
Mr.  George  and  the  others  of  the  party  could \
see  that  the  strangers  were  showing  him  the  in- \
strument, and  apparently  explaining  it  to  him. \
Pretty  soon  Rollo  returned  and  reported  that  the \
two  young  men  were  students,  and  that  the  in- \
strument which  they  had  was  a  metallic  barome- \
ter, and  that  they  were  measuring  the  height  of \
the  mountain  with  it. \
\
This  metallic  barometer  is  quite  a  curious  in- \
strument. You  will  .often  read,  in  books,  of \
measuring  the  height  of  a  mountain,  or  other \
/ofty  place,  by  the  barometer  ;  and  to  most  people \
this  is  quite  a  mystery.  The  explanation  of  it  is, \
however,  very  simple.  It  is  this  :  The  earth  is \
surrounded  on  all  sides  by  the  atmosphere,  which. \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  149 \
\
\
Explanations  in  respect  to  the  barometer. \
\
\
though  very  light,  has  a  certain  weight,  and  it \
presses  with  considerable  force  upon  the  ground, \
and  upon  every  thing  that  is  exposed  to  it.  If, \
however,  you  go  up  from  the  ground,  as,  for \
instance,  when  you  ascend  a  mountain,  the  high- \
er you  go,  the  less  the  pressure  is.  This  is \
naturally  to  be  expected,  for  the  higher  you  go  in \
such  a  case,  the. less  air  there  is  above  you  to \
press.  Now,  a  barometer  is  an  instrument  to \
measure  the  pressure  of  the  air,  just  as  a  ther- \
mometer measures  the  heat  or  coldness  of  it. \
A  metallic  barometer  is  a  new  kind,  in  which  the \
air  presses  on  a  curiously  contrived  ring  or  band \
of  brass,  and  according  as  it  presses  more  or  less, \
it  moves  an  index  like  the  hand  of  a  watch,  which \
is  placed  on  the  face  of  it.  It  was  such  an  instru- \
ment as  this  that  the  two  students  had,  on  Vesuvius. \
The  way  in  which  you  use  such  an  instrument \
to  measure  the  height  of  a  mountain  is  this  :  You \
look  at  the  instrument  when  you  are  at  the  bot- \
tom of  the  mountain,  before  you  begin  your  as- \
cent, and  see  how  it  stands.  There  is  a  little \
index  like  the  hour  hand  of  a  watch,  which  is \
movable.  This  you  set  at  the  point  where  the \
other  index  stands  when  you  are  at  the  foot  of \
the  mountain.  Then  you  begin  your  ascent. \
You  shut  up  your  barometer  if  you  please,  and \
put  it  in  your  knapsack,  or  in  the  chaise  box,  or \
\
\
150  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mode  of  measuring  the  heights  of  mountains  with  it. \
\
any  where  else  you  please.  Wherever  you  put \
it,  the  pressure  of  the  air  will  find  it  out,  and \
penetrate  to  it,  and  as  you  gradually  rise  from \
the  surface  of  the  earth,  the  index,  which  is  con- \
nected with  the  curious  brass  ring,  moves  slowly \
backward  as  the  pressure  diminishes.  This  mo- \
tion continues  as  long  as  you  continue  ascending. \
If  you  come  to  a  level  place,  it  remains  station- \
ary as  long  as  the  level  continues.  If  you  de- \
scend, it  goes  forward  a  little,  and  then  begins  to \
go  back  again  as  soon  as  you  once  more  begin  to \
ascend.  Then,  when  you  get  to  the  top  of  the \
mountain,  you  look  at  it,  and  you  see  at  once  how \
much  the  pressure  of  the  air  has  diminished. \
From  this,  by  an  easy  calculation,  you  tell  at \
once  how  high  you  have  come. \
\
Mr.  George  knew  all  about  the  barometer, \
and  the  means  of  measuring  heights  with  it, \
though  he  had  never  seen  an  instrument  of  this \
particular  kind.  He  was  accordingly  very  much \
interested  in  Rollo's  account  of  it,  and  he  said \
he  had  a  great  mind  to  go  and  see  it  himself. \
\
"  I  wish  you  would,"  said  Rollo.  "  I  told  them \
that  I  thought  you  would  like  to  see  it,  and  they \
said  that  they  should  be  very  happy  to  show  it \
to  you." \
\
Mr.  George  accordingly  went  to  see  the  instru- \
ment, and  the  students  gave  him  so  cordial  a \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  151 \
\
The  proposal  of  the  students.  Mr.  George's  decision. \
\
reception,  that  he  formed  at  once  quite  an  inti- \
mate acquaintance  with  them.  Indeed  they  were \
quite  pleased  to  find  a  person  on  the  mountain \
who  sympathized  with  them  in  their  scientific \
inquiries  and  pursuits,  and  was  capable  of  under- \
standing and  appreciating  them.  They  told  Mr. \
George  that  they  were  going  to  remain  on  the \
mountain  until  after  dark,  in  order  to  see  it  in \
its  night  aspects,  and  they  invited  him  to  remain \
with  them. \
\
"  Then  to-morrow,"  said  they,  "  we  are  going \
across  the  mountain  down  through  the  back  ra- \
vines, to  study  the  geological  structure  of  the \
old  lava  beds,  and  so  come  out  at  Pompeii." \
\
Mr.  George  said  there  could  be  nothing  that  he \
should  enjoy  more,  were  it  not  that  he  had  ladies \
under  his  charge,  and  that  he  felt  bound  to  ac- \
company them  back  to  Naples. \
\
Rollo,  when  he  heard  this  invitation,  immedi- \
ately felt  a  strong  desire  that  Mr.  George  should \
go,  and  that  he  might  go  too.  He  instantly  per- \
ceived, however,  that  this  was  out  of  the  ques- \
tion ;  but  he  thought  that  by  cordially  falling  in \
with  the  plan  of  allowing  Mr.  George  to  go,  he \
might,  perhaps,  be  the  means  of  accomplishing \
it.  Many  boys,  in  such  a  case,  when  they  find \
that  a  plan  of  enjoyment  that  is  proposed  is  one \
which  they  cannot  themselves  share,  do  all  they \
\
\
152  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Hollo's  cooperation.  He  offers  to  take  care  of  Ilosie. \
\
can  to  hinder  and  oppose  it  altogether.  But  Hol- \
lo had  now  travelled  about  the  world  so  much, \
and  had  acquired  so  much  experience,  that  he \
was  above  such  folly  as  this. \
\
"  Uncle  George,"  said  he,  "  you  can  go  just  as \
well  as  not.  I  can  take  care  of  Rosie  down  the \
mountain  to  the  Hermitage,  and  then  we  shall \
have  nothing  to  do  but  to  get  into  the  carriage \
and  ride  home." \
\
Mr.  George  saw  at  once  how  generous  it  was \
in  Rollo  to  make  this  offer,  and  he  said  he  would \
so  far  accept  it  as  to  let  Rollo  take  charge  of  the \
party  going  home  from  the  Hermitage  in  the  car- \
riage ;  but  he  felt  bound,  he  said,  not  to  leave  Rosie \
until  he  had  returned  her  safe  to  her  mother's \
hands.  So  he  said  to  the  students,  \'97 \
\
"  I  will  go  down  the  cone  with  Rosie  and  the \
two  boys,  and  accompany  them  as  far  as  the  Her- \
mitage. There  I  shall  find  Mrs.  Gray  and  the \
carriage.  If  Mrs.  Gray  seems  cordially  willing \
to  go  home  with  the  children  alone,  I  will  come \
back  here  and  join  you ;  but  if  I  find  she  does \
not  seem  entirely  willing,  \'97  if  she  looks  sober \
about  it,  \'97  then  I  will  go  back  to  Naples  ; \
though  in  that  case  I  shall  come  to  Pompeii  to- \
morrow, and  shall  hope  to  meet  you  there." \
\
"  I  hope  the  lady  will  be  willing  to  release \
you,"  said  one  of  the  students. \
\
\
COMING    DOWN. \
\
\
THE  SUMMIT.  155 \
\
Mr.  George  descends  to  the  Hermitage. \
\
"  I  have  but  little  doubt  that  she  will,"  said \
Mr.  George. \
\
Accordingly,  after  rambling  about  on  the  mar- \
gin of  the  crater  a  little  time  longer,  and  gather- \
ing all  the  specimens  which  they  required,  Mr. \
George  and  the  children  commenced  their  de- \
scent. One  of  the  students  went  down  with \
them,  in  order  to  accompany  Mr.  George  back. \
The  descent  was  very  easy,  for  the  path  led  down \
a  slope,  where,  instead  of  being  rocky  as  it  was \
where  they  came  up,  there  was  little  else  but \
loose  sand,  so  that  at  every  step  they  took  they \
slid  down  a  great  way,  and  thus  went,  very  fast \
and  very  easily,  from  the  top  to  the  bottom. \
\
When  they  reached  the  foot  of  the  slope,  they \
found  the  mules  and  donkeys  there.  Hollo  and \
Josie  insisted  that  Mr.  George  and  the  student \
should  ride,  because  they  had  got  to  ascend  the \
cone  again. \
\
"Besides,"  said  Rollo,  "if  you  ride  you  can \
get  there  quicker,  and  arrange  the  business  with \
Mrs.  Gray." \
\
Mr.  George  was  right  in  anticipating  that  Mrs. \
Gray  would  give  her  cordial  consent  to  have \
him  leave  the  party. \
\
"I  shall  miss  your  company,"  said  she,  "  but  I \
feel  perfectly  safe  in  going  home  in  the  carriage \
with  Philippe  and  the  boys.  Besides,  I  shall \
\
\
156  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Return  of  the  party  to  Naples. \
\
want  to  hear  an  account  of  your  adventures  on. \
the  mountain  in  the  night,  and  in  crossing  over \
by  the  ravines  to-morrow.  And  then  if  you  are \
willing,"  she  added,  "  we  will  all  come  and  meet \
you  at  Pompeii  to-morrow." \
\
"  I  should  like  that  very  much  indeed,"  said \
Mr.  George.  "  Philippe  will  arrange  every  thing \
for  you." \
\
This  being  all  settled,  Mrs.  Gray  and  the \
children  entered  the  carriage  and  set  out  for \
Naples,  while  Mr.  George  and  the  student  turned \
their  faces  towards  the  mountain  again. \
\
\
POMPEII.  157 \
\
Rollo  brings  bad  news  about  Philippe. \
\
\
CHAPTER  VIII. \
POMPEII. \
\
ON  the  evening  of  the  day  on  which  the  ex- \
cursion, to  Vesuvius  was  made,  Rollo  came  into \
Mrs.  Gray's  room,  wearing  a  somewhat  disturbed \
countenance.  He  told  Mrs.  Gray  that  he  had \
got  some  bad  news  for  her. \
\
"  Ah/7  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  I'm  sorry  to  hear  that. \
What  is  the  bad  news  ?  " \
\
"  Philippe  is  engaged  for  to-morrow,"  said \
Rollo,  "and so  he  cannot  go  with  us  to  Pompeii." \
\
"0,  how  sorry  I  am!"  said  Josie.  "What \
shall  we  do  ?  " \
\
"  How  is  he  engaged  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
"  He  is  going  with  a  party  to  Baias." \
\
"  Where  is  Baiae  ?  "  asked  Josie.  "  Is  it  any \
where  near  Pompeii  ?  " \
\
"  No,"  said  Rollo  ;  "  it  is  exactly  in  the  opposite \
direction.  It  is  on  the  sea  coast  to  the  west,  and \
Pompeii  is  on  the  sea  coast  to  the  east." \
\
"  What  is  there  to  be  seen  at  Baia3  ? "  asked \
Mrs.  Gray. \
\
\
158  ROLLO  IN   NAPLES. \
\
Hollo  proposes  to  conduct  the  party  to  Pompeii. \
\
"  Nothing  but  old  ruins,"  said  Rollo,  contempt- \
uously. "  I  don't  see  why  people  should  want  to \
go  so  far,  and  take  away  our  guide,  just  to  see  old \
ruins.  Besides,  there  are  plenty  of  old  ruins  at \
Pompeii. \
\
"  But,  Mrs.  Gray,"  continued  Rollo,  "  I  don't \
think  we  need  any  guide  at  all  to  go  to  Pompeii. \
We  can  go  by  ourselves." \
\
"  Do  you  think  so  ?  "  said  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
'\'95  Why,  you  see  I  can  engage  a  carriage  to  take \
us  there  myself,"  said  Rollo.  "  I  shall  say  *  Pom- \
peii ! '  to  the  coachman,  and  point  that  way.  And \
when  we  get  to  Pompeii,  we  shall  find  uncle \
George  there,  and  then  we  shall  get  along  well \
enough." \
\
"True,"  said  Mrs.  Gray.  "But  then,"  she \
added,  after  thinking  a  moment,  "perhaps  we \
might  miss  Mr.  George,  after  all.  I  don't  know \
how  large  a  place  it  is.  If  it  is  a  large  place, \
we  might  miss  him  in  some  of  the  streets." \
\
Here  Rosie  opened  a  guide  book  which  lay \
upon  the  table,  and  turned  to  a  map  of  Pompeii \
which  she  recollected  to  have  seen  there.  Her \
hope  was  to  find  that  there  were  not  many  streets, \
and  thus  to  show  that  there  would  not  be  much \
danger  of  missing  Mr.  George.  She  found,  how- \
ever, that  the  plan  of  the  town  looked  quite \
complicated.  There  was  a  long  street,  called  the \
\
\
POMPEII.  159 \
\
Difference  of  condition  between  Herculaueum  and  Pompeii. \
\
Street  of  the  Tombs,  leading  into  it ;  and  then \
within  the  walls  there  were  a  great  many  other \
streets,  crossing  each  other,  and  running  in  all \
directions.  So  she  shut  the  book,  and  did  not \
say  a  word,  thinking  that  the  sight  of  the  plan \
would  impede,  rather  than  promote,  the  accept- \
ance of  Hollo's  proposal. \
\
"  I  don't  think  there  are  a  great  many  streets," \
said  Rollo.  "  There  were  none  at  all  at  Hercu- \
laneum." \
\
"  Ah,  but  Herculaneum  is  a  very  different \
thing,"  said  Mrs.  Gray.  "  Herculaneum  was \
buried  up  very  deep  with  solid  lava,  and  only  a \
very  small  portion  of  it  has  been  explored,  and \
that  you  go  down  into  as  you  would  into  a  cellar \
or  a  mine.  Pompeii  was  but  just  covered,  and \
that  only  with  sand  and  ashes  ;  and  the  sand  and \
ashes  have  all  been  dug  out  and  carted  off  from \
a  large  part  of  the  city,  so  as  to  bring  the  whole \
out  in  the  open  day." \
\
"  Then  it  will  be  a  great  deal  pleasanter  place \
to  visit,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Mrs.  Gray ;  "  and  I  don't  think \
that  there  will  be  much  danger  in  our  going  by \
ourselves.  If  we  don't  find  Mr.  George,  we  can \
walk  about  a  while,  and  then  come  back  in  the \
carriage  again." \
\
"  We  might  go  by  the  railroad  if  we  chose," \
\
\
160  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Final  air.iugeiuent.  Neapolitan  carriages.  The  coachmen. \
\
said  Rollo.  "  There  is  a  railroad  that  runs  along \
the  coast,  and  passes  very  near  Pompeii." \
\
"  I  think  we  had  better  take  a  carriage,"  said \
Mrs.  Gray,  "  because  a  carriage  will  take  us  and \
leave  us  wherever  we  wish.  There  will  be  more \
changes  if  we  go  by  the  railroad,  and  we  should \
need  to  speak  more." \
\
It  was  finally  agreed  that  the  party  should  go, \
and  Rollo  and  Josie  were  to  have  a  carriage \
ready  at  nine  o'clock  the  next  morning.  They \
were  all  to  breakfast  at  eight  o'clock. \
\
Now  it  happens  there  is  no  difficulty  in  get- \
ting a  carriage  at  Naples.  The  streets  are  full \
of  them.  They  are  very  pretty  carriages  too,  as \
they  are  seen  standing  in  pleasant  weather,  with \
the  tops  turned  back,  showing  the  soft  cush- \
ions on  the  seats  that  look  so  inviting.  The \
coachmen  who  drive  these  carriages  are  very \
eager  to  get  customers.  They  watch  at  the  doors \
of  the  hotels,  and  every  where,  indeed,  along  the \
streets,  and  whenever  they  see  a  lady  and  gentle- \
man coming,  they  drive  forward  to  meet  them, \
and  call  out  to  offer  them  the  carriage  ;  and  some- \
times they  go  along  for  some  distance  by  the  side \
of  the  strangers,  trying  to  induce  them  to  get  in. \
\
Some  of  these  carriages  have  two  horses,  and \
contain  a  front  and  a  back  seat.  Others  have \
only  one  horse,  and  only  a  back  seat  ;  but  they \
\
\
POMPEII.  161 \
\
\
Breakfast  iu  the  public  room.  Kollo  and  Josie  go  for  a  carriage. \
\
all  look  very  nice  and  tidy,  and  the  price  to  be \
paid  for  them  is  quite  low. \
\
The  party  all  breakfasted  together  the  next \
morning,  and  they  went  down  into  the  dining \
room  for  their  breakfast,  instead  of  taking  it  in \
Mrs.  Gray's  room.  They  did  this  at  the  request \
of  the  boys,  who  said  it  was  more  amusing  to  go \
into  the  public  room  and  see  the  different  parties \
that  came  in  for  early  breakfasts,  and  hear  them \
talk,  in  various  languages,  of  the  different  excur- \
sions that  they  are  going  to  make  that  day. \
\
At  about  a  quarter  before  nine,  Rollo  and \
Josie  went  out  to  look  for  a  carriage.  Rollo \
stopped  at  the  office  of  the  hotel  in  going  out, \
and  inquired  of  the  secretary  how  much  ought \
to  be  paid  for  a  carriage  with  two  horses  to \
go  to  Pompeii.  The  secretary  told  him  three \
dollars. \
\
He  and  Josie  then  went  out  into  the  street. \
There  was  a  long  row  of  carriages,  some  with \
two  horses  and  some  with  one,  standing  in  the \
middle  of  the  street  opposite  to  the  hotel.  The \
coachmen  of  all  these  carriages,  as  soon  as  they \
saw  the  boys  come  out,  began  immediately  to  call \
out  to  them,  and  crack  their  whips,  and  make  other \
such  demonstrations  to  attract  their  attention. \
\
"  Now,"  said  Rollo  to  Josie,  "  we  must  walk \
along  carelessly,  and  not  appear  to  look  at  the \
11 \
\
\
162  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
They  make  a  bargain  with  the  coachman  by  signs. \
\
carriages  as  if  we  wanted  one  ;  for  if  we  do, \
they  will  come  driving  towards  us  in  a  body. \
We  will  walk  along  quietly  till  we  come  to  a \
nice  carriage  and  a  first  rate  pair  of  horses,  and \
then  we'll  go  right  up  to  the  coachman  and \
engage  him." \
\
/This  the  boys  did.  They  sauntered  along \
with  a  careless  air,  concealing  the  desire  they \
had  to  engage  a  carriage,  until  at  last  they  came \
to  one  which  Rollo  thought  would  do.  The  in- \
stant the  boys  stopped  before  this  carriage,  the \
coachman  jumped  down  from  his  box,  and  began \
to  open  the  carriage  door  for  them,  and  at  the \
same  time  all  the  other  coachmen  in  the  line  be- \
gan cracking  their  whips,  and  calling  out  to \
the  boys  again  to  come  and  take  their  carriages. \
Rollo  paid  no  attention  to  them,  but  addressed \
the  coachman  of  the  carriage  which  he  had \
selected,  and  said  in  French,  "  To  Pompeii.'1 \
\
"  Si,  signore,  si,  signore"  said  the  coachman, \
which  Rollo  knew  very  well  meant  "Yes,  sir, \
yes,  sir."  At  the  same  time  the  coachman  made \
eager  gestures  for  the  boys  to  get  in. \
\
But  Rollo  would  not  get  in.  but  waited  to \
make  his  bargain  about  the  price. \
\
"  Quanta  ?  "  said  he.  Quanta  is  the  Italian \
word  for  how  much.  In  saying  Quanta,  Rollo \
held  up  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand,  to  denote  to \
\
\
POMPEII.  163 \
\
The  coachman  demands  four  dollars.  Hollo  offers  three. \
\
the  coachman  that  he  was  to  show  him  by  his \
fingers  how  many  piastres. \
\
The  coachman  said  four,  speaking  in  Italian, \
and  at  the  same  time  held  up  four  fingers. \
\
"No,"  said  Rollo,  "three."  And  Rollo  held \
up  three  fingers. \
\
The  coachman  seemed  to  hesitate  a  moment ; \
but  when  he  saw  that  the  boys  were  ready  to  go \
away  and  apply  for  another  carriage  unless  he \
would  take  them  for  the  regular  and  proper \
price,  he  said,  "Si.  signore" again,  arid  once  more \
motioned  for  the  boys  to  get  in.  So  they  got  in, \
and  the  coachman  drove  to  the  hotel  door. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  were  all  ready,  and  when \
they  came  to  see  the  carriage  which  the  boys  had \
chosen  for  them,  they  were  very  much  pleased \
with  it. \
\
"  I  don't  see  but  that  you  can  manage  the \
business,  Rollo,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  as  well  as  any \
courier  or  valet  de  place  that  we  could  have." \
\
"  How  could  you  make  him  understand  what \
you  wanted,  without  speaking  Italian  ?  "  asked \
Rosie. \
\
"  I  did  it  partly  by  signs,"  said  Rollo. \
\
The  road  to  Pompeii,  for  the  first  few  miles, \
was  the  same  with  the  one  to  Vesuvius,  which \
they  had  taken  the  day  before.  It  led  first \
through  the  busiest  .part  of  Naples,  along  by  the \
\
\
164  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Beginning  of  the  ride.  Streams  of  ancient  lava. \
\
docks  and  the  shipping,  and  then  through  the \
series  of  towns  and  villages  which  line  the  shore \
of  the  bay,  at  the  foot  of  the  slopes  of  Vesuvius. \
After  passing  in  this  manner  through  one  contin- \
ued street  for  five  or  six  miles,  the  road  came \
out  more  into  the  open  country,  where  fine  views \
were  had  of  the  mountain  on  one  side,  and  of  the \
bay  on  the  other.  The  mountain  sides  were \
generally  extremely  fertile,  being  covered  with \
vineyards  and  groves,  though  here  and  there \
were  to  be  seen  the  streams  of  lava  which  had \
come  down  within  a  few  hundred  years,  and \
which  had  not  yet  become  disintegrated  and  con- \
verted into  soil.  These  streams  of  lava  looked \
like  torrents  of  brown  water  suddenly  turned \
into  stone,  as  they  came  streaming  down  the \
mountain  side. \
\
In  one  place,  one  of  these  streams  of  lava \
passed  under  a  town.  That  is  to  say,  such  was \
the  appearance.  The  fact  was,  really,  that  the \
lava  had  destroyed  the  part  of  the  town  that \
came  in  its  way,  and  the  people  had  built  up  their \
houses  again  on  the  top  of  it.  The  lava  was  cut \
down  a  little  in  making  the  road,  so  that  you \
could  see  at  the  road  side  a  portion  of  the  stream, \
with  the  houses  upon  it. \
\
After  riding  on  in  this  way  two  or  three  hours, \
the  carriage  stopped  at  a  very  pleasant  place, \
\
\
POMPEII.  165 \
\
The  party  arrive  at  Pompeii.  Guides  at  the  gate. \
\
among  vineyards  and  mulberry  groves,  at  the \
entrance  of  a  pretty  lane,  which  led  to  the  gates \
of  Pompeii. \
\
"  Now,"  said  Rosie,  "  our  difficulties  are  going \
to  begin.  I  don't  see  how  we  are  going  to  know \
where  to  look  for  Mr.  George." \
\
"  We  will  see,'7  said  Mrs.  Gray. \
\
The  coachman  opened  the  door,  and  all  the \
party  got  out.  Just  then  they  saw  at  a  short \
distance  before  them,  where  there  was  a  sort  of \
gate,  several  men  in  a  species  of  uniform,  which \
denoted  that  they  were  the  persons  appointed \
by  the  government  to  take  charge  of  the  place, \
and  to  show  it  to  visitors.  One  of  these  men,  as \
soon  as  he  saw  the  party,  seemed  to  look  very \
much  pleased,  and  he  advanced  to  meet  them  with \
a  smiling  face.  At  the  same  time  he  said  some- \
thing to  a  boy  who  was  near  by,  and  the  boy  ran \
off  into  the  town.  The  young  man  in  uniform, \
when  he  came  near  to  Mrs.  Gray,  said  something \
which  at  first  she  could  not  understand,  but  which \
she  soon  perceived  was  an  attempt  to  pronounce \
the  words,  II  Signore  Holiday. \
\
"  Ah  !  he  has  seen  Mr.  George,"  said  Mrs.  Gray. \
"  Mr.  George  has  been  here,  and  has  told  him  to \
watch  for  us." \
\
This  supposition  on  the  part  of  Mrs.  Gray  was \
correct.  Mr.  George  had  come  early  with  the \
\
\
1G6  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
They  find  Mr.  George.  State  of  tli*  town. \
\
students  to  Pompeii,  in  order  to  be  ready  there  to \
receive  Mrs.  Gray  and  her  party,  and  he  had  sta- \
tioned this  man  at  the  gate  to  watch  for  them, \
with  directions  to  send  the  boy  in  for  him  at  an \
appointed  place,  as  soon  as  they  should  ar- \
rive. The  boy  soon  found  Mr.  George,  and  he \
came  immediately  back  to  the  gate.  Of  course \
the  whole  party  were  very  much  pleased  to  see \
him. \
\
"  And  yet,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  Rollo  has  man- \
aged so  well  that  I  should  not  have  felt  any  anx- \
iety if  we  had  continued  under  his  sole  charge \
all  day." \
\
The  party  now  commenced  their  exploration \
of  Pompeii.  They  found  it,  as  they  had  expected, \
all  open  to  the  day.  A  great  many  of  the  streets, \
with  all  the  houses  bordering  them,  had  been \
cleared,  and  all  the  sand  and  gravel  under  which \
they  had  been  buried  had  been  carted  away. \
Immense  heaps  of  this  rubbish  were  lying  outside \
the  entrance,  and  the  party  had  passed  them  in \
the  carriage  on  their  approach  to  the  town. \
They  had  been  lying  there  so  long,  however,  that \
they  were  covered  with  grass  and  small  trees, \
and  they  looked  like  great  railroad  embank- \
ments. \
\
Indeed,  the  appearance  which  Pompeii  presents \
now  is  that  of  a  large  open  village  of  ruined  and \
\
\
POMPEII.  167 \
\
\
Structure  of  the  houses  in  Pompeii.  No  chimneys. \
\
roofless  one-storied  houses.  Many  of  the  houses \
were  originally  two  stories  high,  it  is  true ;  but \
the  upper  stories  have  been  destroyed  or  shaken \
down,  and  in  general  it  is  the  lower  story  only \
that  now  remains. \
\
The  structure  of  the  houses,  in  respect  to  plan \
and  general  arrangement,  is  very  different  from \
that  of  the  dwellings  built  in  our  towns  at  the \
present  day.  The  chief  reasons  for  the  differ- \
ence arise  from  the  absence  of  windows  and \
chimneys  in  the  houses  of  the  ancients,  and  of \
course  the  leaving  out  of  windows  and  chimneys \
in  a  house  makes  it  necessary  to  change  every \
thing. \
\
The  inhabitants  of  Pompeii  had  no  chimneys, \
because  the  climate  there  is  so  mild  that  they \
seldom  needed  a  fire  ;  and  when  they  did  need \
one,  it  was  easier  to  make  a  small  one  in  an  open \
vessel,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  room, \
or  wherever  it  was  required,  than  to  make  a \
chimney  and  a  fireplace.  The  open  pan  in  which \
the  fires  were  made  in  those  days  stood  on  legs, \
and  could  be  moved  about  any  where.  The \
fire  was  made  of  small  twigs  cut  from  the  trees. \
The  people  would  let  the  pan  stand  in  the  open \
air  until  the  twigs  were  burnt  to  coal,  and \
then  they  would  carry  the  pan,  with  the  embers \
still  glowing,  into  the  room  which  they  wished \
\
\
168  HOLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mode  of  warming  the  rooms.  Xo  windows. \
\
to  warm,  and  place  it  wherever  it  was  re- \
quired. \
\
The  same  contrivance  is  used  at  the  present \
day  in  Naples,  and  in  all  the  towns  of  that  re- \
gion. In  going  along  the  streets  in  a  cool  even- \
ing or  morning,  you  will  often  see  one  of  these \
brass  pans  before  a  door,  with  a  little  fire  blazing \
in  it,  and  children  or  other  persons  before  it, \
warming  their  hands.  Afterwards,  if  you  watch, \
you  will  see  that  the  people  take  it  into  the \
house. \
\
The  ancient  inhabitants  of  Pompeii  depended \
entirely  on  arrangements  like  these  for  warm- \
ing their  rooms.  There  is  not  a  chimney  to  be \
found  in  the  whole  town. \
\
In  respect  to  windows,  the  reason  why  they \
did  not  have  them  was  because  they  had  no  glass \
to  put  into  them.  They  could  not  make  glass \
in  those  days  well  enough  and  easily  enough  to \
use  it  for  windows.  Of  course  they  had  open- \
ings in  their  houses  to  admit  the  air  and  the \
light,  and  these  openings  might  perhaps  be  called \
windows.  But  in  order  to  prevent  the  wind  and \
rain  from  coming  in,  it  was  necessary  to  have \
them  placed  in  sheltered  situations,  as,  for  exam- \
ple, under  porticos  and  piazzas.  The  custom \
therefore  arose  of  having  a  great  many  porticos \
in  the  houses,  with  rooms  opening  from  them  ; \
\
\
POMPEII.  169 \
\
Porticos  and  piazzas.  The  impluvium.          Interiors  of  the  houses. \
\
and  in  order  that  they  might  not  be  too  much  ex- \
posed, they  were  generally  made  so  as  to  have \
the  open  side  of  them  inwards,  towards  the  cen- \
tre of  the  house,  where  a  small,  square  place  was \
left,  without  a  roof  over  it,  to  admit  the  light \
and  air. \
\
Of  course  the  rain  would  come  in  through  this \
open  space,  and  the  floor  of  it  was  generally \
formed  into  a  square  marble  basin,  to  receive  the \
water.  This  was  called  the  impluvium.  Some- \
times there  was  a  fountain  in  the  centre  of  the \
impluvium,  and  all  around  it  were  the  porticos, \
within  and  under  which  were  the  doors  opening \
into  the  different  rooms. \
\
The  guide,  who  conducted  Mr.  George  and  his \
party,  led  them  into  several  of  these  houses,  and \
every  one  was  much  interested  in  examining  the \
arrangement  of  the  rooms,  and  in  imagining  how \
the  people  looked  in  going  in  and  out,  and  in \
living  in  them.  The  bed  rooms  were  extremely \
small.  The  walls  of  some  of  them  were  beaut;* \
fully  painted,  but  the  rooms  themselves  were  oft \
not  much  bigger  than  a  state  room  in  a  steamship. \
The  bedstead  was  a  sort  of  berth,  formed  upon  a \
marble  shelf  built  across  from  wall  to  wall. \
\
In  some  of  the  houses  there  were  more  rooms \
than  could  be  arranged  around  one  court ;  and  in \
such  cases  there  were  two,  and  sometimes  three \
\
\
170  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Subterranean  passage  beneath  a  portico. \
\
\
courts.  In  one  case,  the  third  court  was  a  gar- \
den, with  a  beautiful  portico  formed  of  ornamental \
columns  all  around  it.  Beneath  this  portico  the \
ladies  of  the  house,  in  rainy  weather,  could  walk \
at  their  ease,  and  see  the  flowers  growing  in  the \
garden,  just  as  well  as  if  the  weather  were  fair. \
\
Under  this  portico,  all  around,  was  a  subterra- \
nean chamber,  which  seemed  to  be  used  as  a  sort \
of  cellar.  And  yet  it  was  very  neatly  finished, \
and  the  walls  of  it  were"  ornamented  in  such  a \
way  as  to  lead  people  to  suppose  that  it  might \
have  been  used  as  a  cool  walk  in  warm  weather. \
This  passage  way  was  first  discovered  by  means \
of  the  steps  leading  down  to  it.  It  was  almost \
full  of  earth,  which  earth  consisted  of  volcanic \
sand  and  ashes,  which  had  flowed  into  it  in  the \
form  of  mud. \
\
On  one  side  of  this  subterranean  passage  way, \
near  the  entrance,  there  were  a  number  of  skele- \
tons found.  These  skeletons  were  in  a  standing \
position  against  the  wall,  where  the  persons  had \
been  stopped  and  buried  up  by  the  mud  as  it \
flowed  in.  The  marks  left  by  the  bodies  against \
the  wall  remain  to  this  day,  and  Hollo  and  all \
the  party  saw  them. \
\
One  of  the  skeletons  was  that  of  a  female,  and \
there  were  a  great  many  rings  on  the  fingers  of \
the  hands,  and  bracelets,  necklaces,  and  other \
\
\
POMPEII.  171 \
\
Few  skeletons  found.  The  faithful  sentinel.  The  streets. \
\
ornaments  on  the  other  bones.  From  this  cir- \
cumstance it  is  supposed  that  this  person  was  the \
wife  of  the  owner  of  the  house,  and  that  in  try- \
ing to  save  herself  and  her  jewelry  upon  her,  she \
had  fled  with  the  servants  to  this  cellar,  and \
there  had  been  overwhelmed. \
\
There  were  very  few  skeletons  found  in  the \
houses  of  Pompeii ;  from  which  circumstance  it  is \
supposed  that  the  inhabitants  generally  had  time \
to  escape.  There  was,  however,  one  remarkable \
case.  It  was  that  of  a  sentinel  in  his  sentry \
box,  at  the  gate  of  the  city.  He  would  not  leave \
his  post,  as  it  would  seem,  and  so  perished  at  the \
station  where  he  had  been  placed.  His  head, \
with  the  helmet  still  upon  it,  was  carried  to  the \
museum  at  Naples,  where  it  is  now  seen  by  all \
the  world,  and  every  one  who  sees  it  utters  some \
expression  of  praise  for  the  courage  and  fidelity \
which  the  poor  fellow  displayed  in  fulfilling  his \
trust. \
\
The  streets  of  the  town  were  narrow,  but  they \
were  paved  substantially  with  large  and  solid \
stones,  flat  at  the  top.  Along  these  streets  there \
were  a  great  many  very  curious  shops,  such  as \
barbers7  shops,  painters'  shops,  wine  shops,  and \
the  like.  The  wine  shops  were  furnished  with \
deep  jars  set  in  a  sort  of  stone  counter.  The \
jars  were  open-mouthed,  and  the  men  who  kept \
\
\
172  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  Forum.  Theatres  and  amphitheatre.  The  arena. \
\
the  shops  were  accustomed  apparently  to  dip. \
the  wine  out  of  them,  in  selling  to  their  cus- \
tomers. \
\
After  passing  through  a  number  of  these \
streets,  the  party  came  at  length  to  a  great  public \
square  called  the  Forum.  This  square  was  sur- \
rounded with  the  ruins  of  temples,  and  other \
great  public  edifices.  The  columns  and  porticos \
which  bordered  the  square  are  all  now  more  or \
less  in  ruins ;  but  there  are  still  so  many  of  them, \
standing  as  to  show  exactly  what  the  forms  of \
the  buildings  must  have  been  when  they  were \
complete,  and  how  the  square  must  have  appeared. \
\
In  another  part  of  the  town  were  the  remains \
of  two  theatres,  and  outside  the  walls  an  im- \
mense amphitheatre,  where  were  exhibited  the \
combats  of  wild  beasts,  and  those  of  the  gladiators. \
There  are  a  great  many  ruins  of  amphitheatres \
like  this  scattered  over  Italy.  They  are  of  an \
oval  form,  and  the  seats  extend  all  around.  The \
place  where  the  combats  took  place  was  a  level \
spot  in  the  centre,  called  the  arena. \
\
In  viewing  these  various  ruins,  Mr.  George  and \
the  two  students  seemed  most  interested  in  the \
theatres,  and  temples,  and  other  great  public  edi- \
fices, while  Mrs.  Gray  and  the  children  seemed \
to  think  a  great  deal  more  of  the  houses  and  the \
shops.  There  was  one  baker's  shop  with  the \
\
\
POMPEII.  173 \
\
Uteusils  and  implements.    The  museum  at  Naples.     The  return  home. \
\
oven  entire,  and  three  stone  hand  mills,  in  which \
the  baker  used  to  grind  his  corn.  There  were \
a  great  many  curious  utensils  and  implements \
found  in  this  shop,  when  it  was  first  excavated ; \
but  Mr.  George  said  that  they  had  all  been  re- \
moved. \
\
"  I  wish  they  had  let  them  stay  here,"  said \
Rollo. \
\
"It  would  be  a  great  deal  more  interesting  to \
us  to  see  them  here,"  said  Mr.  George,  "  but  they \
would  not  have  been  safe.  The  government  has \
therefore  built  an  immense  museum  at  Naples, \
and  every  thing  that  is  movable  has  been  carried \
there.  So  we  come  here  first  to  see  the  town \
and  the  remains  of  the  shops  and  the  houses,  and \
then  afterwards  we  go  to  the  museum  at  Naples \
to  see  the  things  that  were  found  in  them." \
\
After  rambling  about  in  Pompeii  for  several \
hours,  the  party  went  out  by  another  gate,  where \
they  found  the  carriage  waiting  for  them,  and  so \
returned  home. \
\
\
174  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
\
Mrs.  Gray  and  the  party  propose  to  visit  the  museum. \
\
\
CHAPTER   IX. \
THE  MUSEUM. \
\
THE  great  museum  at  Naples  is  one  of  the \
most  wonderful  collections  of  curiosities  in  the \
world.  It  is  contained  in  an  immense  building, \
which  is  divided  into  numerous  galleries  and \
halls,  each  of  which  is  devoted  to  some  special \
department  of  art. \
\
It  was  the  plan  of  our  party  to  go  and  see  the \
museum  on  the  day  after  their  visit  to  Pompeii, \
\'97  or  rather  to  begin  to  see  it ;  for  it  requires  a \
great  deal  more  than  one  day  even  to  walk  cur- \
sorily through  the  rooms. \
\
On  the  morning  of  the  day  in  question,  Mrs. \
Gray  said  to  Mr.  George,  at  breakfast,  that  she \
had  a  plan  to  propose. \
\
"  What  is  it?"  asked  Mr.  George. \
\
"  I  am  afraid  that  you  will  not  think  it  very \
polite  in  me  to  propose  it,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "  but \
it  is  this  :  that  when  we  get  into  the  museum,  we \
should  divide  into  two  parties.  Let  Rollo  go \
with  me  and  the  children,  while  you  join  your \
\
\
THE  MUSEUM.  175 \
\
Mrs.  Gray's  proposal  She  and  Mr.  George  debate  it. \
\
friends  the  students,  and  accompany  them.  Then \
we  can  go  through  the  rooms  in  our  way,  and \
you  can  go  in  yours." \
\
Mr.  George  hesitated.  For  a  moment  he \
seemed  not  to  know  what  to  reply  to  this  pro- \
posal. \
\
"The  reason  is,"  said  Mrs.  Gray,  "that  the \
objects  which  you  and  the  students  will  have  in \
view  in  the  visit,  may  very  likely  be  different \
from  ours.  You  will  want  to  study  the  antiqui- \
ties, and  the  old  Latin  and  Greek  inscriptions, \
and  the  monuments  illustrating  ancient  history ; \
but  we  should  not  understand  such  things.  We \
shall  be  interested  in  the  paintings,  and  the  rings, \
and  jewels,  and  ornaments  found  in  Pompeii,  and \
in  the  household  implements  and  utensils." \
\
"  But  we  shall  want  to  see  all  those  things, \
too,"  said  Mr.  George. \
\
"  True,"  replied  Mrs.  Gray  ;  "  but  you  will  not \
wish  to  devote  so  great  a  portion  of  time  to  them. \
You  will  wish  to  devote  most  of  your  time  to \
the  learned  things,  and  will  pass  rapidly  over  the \
pretty  things  and  the  curious  things,  while  with \
us  it  will  be  just  the  other  way." \
\
"Yes,  uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "that will  be \
the  best  plan.  Josie  and  I  can  take  care  of  Mrs. \
Gray,  and  you  can  go  where  you  please." \
\
Mr.  George  seemed  at  first  quite  umvillirg  to \
\
\
176  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  assents  at  last  to  the  proposal. \
\
accept  this  proposal.  He  said  he  would  go  with \
Mrs.  Gray  to  any  part  of  the  museum  that  she \
pleased,  and  remain  there  with  her  as  long  as \
she  desired  ;  and  that,  far  from  being  any  incon- \
venience to  him  to  do  so,  it  would  be  a  pleasure. \
But  Mrs.  Gray  said  that  it  was  on  her  account \
more  than  on  his,  that  she  made  the  proposal. \
\
"  Because,"  said  she,  "  if  you  are  with  us  I \
shall  be  thinking  all  the  time  that  perhaps  it \
would  be  better  for  you  to  be  somewhere  else ; \
whereas,  with  Rollo  and  the  children,  I  can  stroll \
about  wherever  I  please." \
\
In  this  view  of  the  case,  Mr.  George  consented \
to  her  proposal.  Accordingly,  after  breakfast, \
he  left  Rollo  to  engage  a  carriage  and  take  Mrs. \
Gray  and  the  others  to  the  museum,  while  he \
went  to  find  his  two  friends,  the  students,  at  an- \
other hotel,  where  they  were  lodging.  They \
were  all  to  meet  in  the  hall  of  the  museum  at  ten \
o'clock. \
\
At  half  past  nine  Rollo  had  a  nice  carriage  at \
the  door.  Josie  sat  in  the  carriage  while  Rollo \
went  up  to  Mrs.  Gray's  room  to  tell  her  that  it \
was  ready.  Rosie,  who  was  still  far  from  being \
strong,  leaned  on  Rollo's  arm  coming  down  stairs. \
\
"  I  am  very  glad  that  you  are  going  to  have \
the  care  of  us  to-day,  instead  of  Mr.  George," \
said  she. \
\
\
THE    MUSEUM.  177 \
\
Rosie's  views  in  respect  to  the  museum. \
\
"  So  am  I,"  said  Hollo.  "  I  am  very  glad \
indeed." \
\
"  I  don't  care  any  thing  at  all  about  his  old \
learned  inscriptions,"  said  Rosie. \
\
"  Nor  do  I  much,"  said  Rollo.  "  Still  they  are \
very  curious,  when  once  we  understand  them." \
\
"  Perhaps  they  may  be,"  said  Rosie,  "  but  I \
don't  care  about  them.  What  I  want  is,  to  see \
the  pretty  things." \
\
"  Yes,"  said  Rollo,  "  and  I  will  show  you  all \
the  pretty  things  I  can  find." \
\
Rollo  assisted  the  two  ladies  into  the  carriage, \
and  then,  after  getting  in  himself,  he  ordered  the \
coachman  to  drive  to  the  "museum.  The  way \
lay  first  through  one  or  two  open  squares,  bor- \
dered with  churches,  porticos,  and  palaces,  and \
then  through  a  long,  straight  street,  called  the \
Toledo.  This  is  the  principal  street  of  shops  in \
Naples,  and  is  said  to  be  the  most  populous  and \
crowded  street  in  Europe.  It  was  so  thronged \
with  people  every  where,  in  the  middle  of  the \
street  as  well  as  upon  the  sidewalks,  that  the \
carriage  could  scarcely  pass  along. \
\
At  length,  however,  it  arrived  at  the  museum. \
There  was  a  spacious  stone  platform  before  the \
building,  with  a  broad  flight  of  stone  steps  as- \
cending to  it.  Rollo  assisted  his  party  to  de- \
scend from  the  carriage,  and  then  he  stopped  to \
12 \
\
\
178  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  party  arrive  at  the  museum.  Entrance  hall. \
\
pay  the  coachman,  while  they  went  up  the  steps. \
Hollo  joined  them  on  the  platform. \
\
The  doors  of  the  museum  building,  which  were \
immensely  large,  were  open,  but  they  were  guard- \
ed by  a  soldier,  who  walked  back  and  forth  be- \
fore the  entrance,  carrying  his  gun  with  the  bay- \
onet set.  Rollo  paid  no  attention  to  him,  but \
walked  directly  in.  Josie  walked  by  his  side, \
and  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  followed  them. \
\
"  Now,"  said  Rollo,  "  we  must  wait  here  until \
uncle  George  comes." \
\
The  hall  into  which  they  had  entered  was  very \
large  and  very  lofty,  and  the  columns  and  stair- \
cases that  were  to  be  seen  here  and  there  adorn- \
ing it  were  very  grand.  On  different  sides  were  va- \
rious passages,  with  doors  leading  to  the  several \
apartments  and  ranges  of  apartments  of  the  mu- \
seum. These  doors  were  all  open,  but  the  en- \
trance to  each  was  closed  by  an  iron  gate,  and \
each  gate  had  a  man  standing  near  it  to  guard  it \
Over  each  of  these  doors  was  an  inscription  con- \
taining the  name  of  the  particular  department  of \
the  museum  to  which  it  led. \
\
By  the  side  of  the  great  door  of  entrance  was \
a  small  room  in  a  corner,  kept  by  two  men  in \
uniform.  This  was  the  place  for  the  visitors  to \
deposit  their  canes  and  umbrellas  in.  It  is  not \
safe  to  allow  people  in  general  to  take  such \
\
\
THE   MUSEUM.  179 \
\
\
Office  for  canes  and  umbrellas.  Tickets.  The  party  divides. \
\
things  into  cabinets  of  curiosities,  for  there  are \
many  who  have  so  little  discretion,  that,  in  point- \
ing to  the  objects  around  them,  they  would  often \
touch  them  with  the  iron  end  of  the  umbrella  or \
the  cane,  and  so  scratch  or  otherwise  injure \
them. \
\
Rollo  took  Mrs.  Gray's  parasol  from  her  hand \
and  gave  it  to  one  of  the  men.  The  man  put  a \
strap  around  it.  The  strap  had  a  ticket  with \
the  number  49  upon  it.  He  gave  another  ticket, \
also  marked  49,  to  Rollo,  and  Rollo  put  it  in  his \
pocket. \
\
At  this  moment  Rollo  saw  Mr.  George  and \
the  two  students  coming  in  at  the  door.  The \
three  gentlemen  deposited  their  canes  at  the  little \
office  just  as  Mrs.  Gray  had  done  with  her  para- \
sol, and  then  the  whole  party  advanced  into  the \
great  hall. \
\
Mr.  George  and  the  students  went  with  Mrs. \
Gray  and  the  children  into  the  first  room,  but \
they  soon  left  them,  and  after  that  Rollo  was  the \
sole  guide. \
\
Each  department  of  the  museum  was  contained \
in  a  separate  suit  of  apartments,  at  the  entrance \
to  which,  as  I  have  already  said,  there  was  a \
small  iron  gate  across  the  doorway.  This  little \
gate  was  kept  shut  and  locked  ;  but  there  was  a \
man  who  stood  by  it,  inside,  always  ready  to  open \
\
\
180  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Fees  to  pay.  Pictures  for  sale.  Tools  and  implements. \
\
it  whenever  he  saw  any  visitors  coining.  He \
always  shut  and  locked  the  door  again  when  the \
visitors  went  in.  Then,  finally,  when  they  were \
ready  to  come  out,  he  unlocked  the  gate  for \
them,  and  it  was  then  that  they  were  expected  to \
pay  the  fee  for  visiting  that  part  of  the  museum. \
Hollo  had  taken  care  to  inquire  about  this  be- \
forehand, and  he  had  provided  himself  with  a \
sufficient  number  of  pieces  of  money  of  the  right \
value,  so  as  not  to  have  any  trouble  in  making \
change. \
\
In  most  of  the  rooms  there  were  men  who  had \
pictures  for  sale,  illustrating  the  objects  con- \
tained there,  for  visitors  to  buy,  in  order  to  car- \
ry them  home  as  souvenirs  of  their  visit,  and  to \
show  to  their  friends  at  home.  Mrs.  Gray \
bought  quite  a  number  of  these  pictures,  and \
Rollo  himself  bought  several. \
\
The  rooms  that  interested  the  young  persons \
most  were  those  which  contained  the  tools  and \
household  implements,  and  the  various  utensils \
found  at  Pompeii.  In  general  these  things  were \
much  more  similar  to  the  corresponding  articles \
of  the  present  day  than  one  would  have  expected \
to  find.  But  yet  there  were  many  differences, \
both  of  form  and  structure,  which  made  them \
extremely  curious  to  see. \
\
For  instance,  there  was  a  bell  found  in  one  of \
\
\
THE  MUSEUM.  181 \
\
Curious  bell.  Steelyards.  Cooking  fireplaces. \
\
the  houses ;  but  instead  of  being  hollow,  and \
having  a  clapper  inside,  as  is  the  custom  at  the \
present  day,  it  consisted  simply  of  a  large,  flat \
ring,  like  a  plate,  with  a  hole  through  the  centre \
of  it.  This  ring  was  hung  up  by  means  of  a  short \
chain,  and  by  the  side  of  it  there  was  hung  a  sort \
of  hammer.  To  ring  the  bell  it  was  necessary \
to  strike  it  with  this  hammer.  An  attendant  in \
the  room  did  this  while  Mrs.  Gray  and  Hollo \
were  there,  to  let  them  hear  how  the  bell \
sounded. \
\
"  It  sounds  very  well  indeed,"  said  Rollo. \
\
"  Yes,"  replied  Rosie  ;  "  but  I  don't  think  it \
is  quite  so  musical  as  one  of  our  bells." \
\
There*were  several  pairs  of  steelyards  in  the \
room,  too,  which  were  very  much  like  the  steel- \
yards of  the  present  day,  only  they  were  made \
of  a  more  ornamental  form.  The  weights  were \
quite  pretty  little  pieces  of  sculpture  and  stat- \
uary. \
\
There  were  some  very  curious  and  pretty  little \
cooking  fireplaces,  one  of  which,  in  particular, \
the  young  people  admired  very  much  indeed. \
Rosie  said  that  she  should  have  liked  it  very \
much  herself,  when  she  was  a  child,  to  play  with. \
In  the  centre  was  a  sort  of  pan  for  the  coals,  or \
embers,  and  all  around  was  a  raised  border, \
made  double,  with  a  space  between  to  contain \
\
\
182  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mosaic  floors  of  different  kinds. \
\
water.  In  one  corner  there  was  a  raised  part, \
with  an  opening  to  pour  in  the  water,  and  in \
front,  below,  there  was  a  small  faucet  for  the \
purpose  of  drawing  the  water  out.  Of  course \
the  embers  or  coals  in  the  centre  of  the  pan  kept \
the  water  in  the  reservoir  around  it  always  warm. \
\
There  was  also  a  little  place  on  one  side  where \
a  kettle  or  a  saucepan  could  stand  on  two  sup- \
ports, with  an  opening  below  to  put  the  coals \
under. \
\
A  great  many  of  the  floors  in  Pompeii  were \
found  to  be  in  mosaic  ;  that  is,  they  were  formed \
of  various  colored  stones,  arranged  together  in  a \
sort  of  bed  of  cement,  in  such  a  manner  as  to \
show  a  picture,  or  some  other  ornamental  design. \
In  many  cases  there  were  only  two  kinds  of \
stones  used,  black  and  white ;  and  these  were \
arranged  so  as  to  form  borders,  scrolls,  and  pat- \
tern work,  \'97  as  it  is  called,  \'97  of  various  kinds. \
In  some  places  a  border  was  formed  around  the \
room,  and  the  figure  of  some  animal  was  placed \
in  the  centre.  In  other  cases  groups  of  animals, \
or  of  men,  were  represented,  in  a  very  perfect \
manner.  It  has  always  been  considered  wonder- \
ful that  such  spirited  and  beautiful  designs  could \
be  so  well  represented  by  a  method  apparently \
so. yude  as  the  arrangement  on  a  floor  of  bits  of \
different  colored  stones. \
\
\
THE  MUSEUM. \
\
\
183 \
\
\
Removal  of  the  mosaics \
\
\
The  best  of  these  mosaics  were  taken  up  and \
removed  to  the  museum.  You  would  think  at  first \
that  it  would  be  impossible  to  remove  them  in  any \
other  way  than  by  taking  them  all  to  pieces  and \
putting  them  together  again,  each  little  stone  in \
its  proper  place,  on  the  floor  of  the  museum, \
where  the  mosaic  was  intended  to  go.  But  the \
artists  contrived  a  way  to  take  them  up  without \
all  this  labor,  and  thus  several  of  the  best  ones \
have  been  removed  without  disturbing  the  ar- \
rangement of  the  stones,  and  have  been  laid \
\
down  on  the  floors  of  the  museum. \
\
o       o      O \
\
\
THE   MOSAIC. \
\
\
o      c \
\
\
184  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
A  large  and  wonderful  mosaic.  The  vase  room. \
\
One  of  the  most  curious  of  these  mosaics  is  a \
representation  of  a  dog,  which  was  placed  just \
within  the  entrance  of  a  house,  and  just  at  the \
entrance  were  the  words,  also  in  mosaic,  CAVE \
CANEM,  which  is  the  Latin  for  LOOK  OUT  FOR \
THE  DOG.  On  the  preceding  page  is  a  repre- \
sentation of  this  mosaic. \
\
This  mosaic  was  curious  rather  than  wonder- \
ful ;  but  in  another  house  there  was  one  which \
has  always  been  considered  a  most  marvellous \
production,  on  account  of  the  complicated  charac- \
ter of  the  design,  and  the  immense  number  of \
stones  composing  it.  It  represents  a  battle \
scene,  and  contains  a  great  number  of  men  and \
horses,  all  mingled  together  in  great  confusion  on \
the  field  of  battle.  The  number  of  pieces  of \
stone  used  in  making  this  mosaic  is  almost  incal- \
culable. \
\
Although  it  was  originally  made  as  part  of  a \
floor,  it  is  now  very  carefully  guarded,  and  no \
one  is  allowed  to  walk  upon  it.  It  is  surrounded \
by  a  railing,  and  along  one  side  of  it  there  is  a \
raised  platform  for  visitors  to  stand  upon  in  order \
to  see  it  to  advantage. \
\
There  were  one  or  two  large  rooms  that  were \
filled  with  beautifully-formed  jars  and  vases,  of  a \
brownish  color,  and  ornamented  upon  the  out- \
side with  figures  and  devices  of  all  kinds.  These \
\
\
THE  MUSEUM.  185 \
\
Curious  mounting  of  some  of  the  vases. \
\
devices  represented  all  sorts  of  scenes,  and  they \
are  considered  extremely  valuable  on  account  of \
the  light  they  throw  on  the  manners  and  customs, \
and  the  modes  of  life,  which  prevailed  in  those \
ancient  days.  Some  of  these  vases  are  of  very \
great  value.  They  are  very  large,  and  to  enable \
the  visitor  to  see  them  on  all  sides,  without  dan- \
ger of  breaking  them,  a  great  many  of  them  are \
mounted  in  the  museum  on  stands  fitted  with  a \
revolving  top,  so  that  they  can  be  turned  round, \
and  made  to  present  all  the  sides  successively  to \
the  spectator.  In  addition  to  this,  some  of  the \
finest  specimens  are  protected  by  a  large  glass \
bell  placed  over  them. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  and  the  children  found  Mr.  George \
and  the  two  students  in  this  room,  when  they  first \
came  into  it.  Mr.  George  said  that  they  were \
going  to  stay  there  nearly  all  that  day.  They \
wished  to  examine  the  drawings  on  the  vases  in, \
detail.  Rollo  looked  at  a  few  of  them,  but  he \
could  not  understand  them  very  well. \
\
"  You  will  understand  them  better,"  said  Mr. \
George,  "  when  you  have  learned  more  about  the \
ancient  mythology." \
\
"  But  then  I  shall  not  be  here  to  see  them,"  re- \
joined Rollo. \
\
"True,"  replied  Mr.  George,  "but  they  have \
all  been  copied  and  engraved,  and  you  will  find \
\
\
186  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Rollo  examines  one  of  them.  The  gem  room. \
\
them  exactly  reproduced  in  books  in  all  the  great \
libraries  of  the  world.  All  that  you  can  do  now \
is  to  take  a  general  view  of  them,  and  of  the \
room  containing  them,  and  to  examine  one  or  two \
in  detail,  and  then,  by  and  by,  when  you  wish  to \
study  them  more  particularly,  you  must  do  it \
from  the  drawings.  You  will  find  that  the  inter- \
est that  you  will  take  in  the  drawings  will  be \
greatly  increased  by  your  having  had  this  oppor- \
tunity to  see  the  originals." \
\
Mr.  George  conducted  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  to \
one  of  the  vases  which  stood  near  a  window, \
on  one  of  the  revolving  stands  ;  and  while  an \
attendant  turned  it  slowly  round,  so  as  to  ex- \
hibit the  successive  sides  to  view,  he  explained \
to  them  the  meaning  of  the  figures,  and  showed \
them  what  the  different  people  were  doing. \
\
After  remaining  a  short  time  in  this  depart- \
ment, Rollo  and  his  party  went  on,  leaving  Mr. \
George  and  the  two  students  still  there. \
\
But  the  room  which  interested  Mrs.  Gray  and \
Rosie  most,  was  what  is  called  the  Gem  Room. \
It  contains  all  the  gems  and  jewelry,  and  other \
personal  ornaments,  that  were  found  at  Hercula- \
neum  and  Pompeii,  as  well  as  a  great  many  other \
very  curious  things.  There  were  rings,  bracelets, \
and  necklaces,  made  of  gold,  and  adorned  with \
precious  stones ;  and  there  were  a  great  many \
\
\
THE  MUSEUM.  187 \
\
The  party  pass  through  other  rooms.    Immense  extent  of  the  museum. \
\
signets  and  other  gems  engraved  in  the  most  del- \
icate and  exquisite  manner.  These  things  were \
all  arranged  in  glass  cases,  so  that  they  could \
be  seen  to  great  advantage,  but  they  could  not \
be  touched.  There  were  a  great  many  other  cu- \
rious things  in  this  room  ;  and  there  were  also  a \
great  many  other  very  curious  rooms,  all  of  which \
Mrs.  Gray  and  the  children  walked  through, \
though  there  were  so  many  things  to  be  seen  in \
them,  that,  in  the  end,  they  became  quite  bewil- \
dered. In  the  mean  time  the  hours  passed  away, \
and  at  length  Mrs.  Gray,  looking  at  her  watch, \
said  it  was  nearly  four  o'clock,  which  was  the \
hour  for  the  museum  to  be  closed.  So  they  did \
not  go  into  any  more  rooms,  but  concluded  to \
go  home.  They  went  down  the  great  staircase, \
towards  the  entrance  door,  and  then,  after  stop- \
ping to  get  Mrs.  Gray's  parasol,  they  took  a \
carriage  and  drove  home.  Mrs.  Gray  said  that \
she  had  seen  the  museum,  but  not  the  things  that \
were  in  it. \
\
"  We  have  scarcely  seen  one  in  a  thousand  of \
them/'  said  she. \
\
\
188  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
How  Hollo  spent  his  time.  The  streets  of  Naples. \
\
\
CHAPTER  X. \
THE  STREETS. \
\
MR.  GEORGE  continued  for  many  days  wholly \
engrossed  with  his  studies  in  the  museum,  so  that \
Hollo  saw  very  little  of  him,  and  had  no  help \
from  him  in  respect  to  finding  occupation  and \
amusement. \
\
"  Indeed,"  said  Rollo  to  Rosie  one  evening,  "  I \
have  lost  the  use  of  him  altogether." \
\
Rollo  was,  however,  not  at  all  at  a  loss  for \
the  means  of  spending  his  time.  It  was  an  end- \
less amusement  for  him  and  Josie  to  ramble \
about  the  streets,  and  observe  the  countless  vari- \
ety of  scenes  and  incidents  which  were  going  on \
there.  It  is  the  custom  at  Naples,  among  all  the \
lower  classes  of  the  people,  to  do  every  thing  in \
the  street,  and  all  the  sidewalks  and  open  spaces, \
especially  along  the  quays,  were  occupied  by \
hundreds  of  families,  engaged  in  every  species  of \
trade  and  manufacture,  and  in  all  sorts  of  domes- \
tic occupations.  Here,  in  a  wide  place  by  the \
side  of  the  street,  cabinet  makers  would  be  at \
\
\
THE  STREETS.  189 \
\
Various  occupations  going  on  in  the  streets. \
\
work,  polishing  tables,  or  making  veneers,  or  put- \
ting together  the  frames  of  bureaus.  A  little \
farther  on,  a  large  space  would  be  occupied  with \
the  manufacture  of  iron  bedsteads,  with  all  the \
operations  of  forging,  filing,  polishing,  and  gild- \
ing going  on  in  the  open  air.  Next,  a  turner \
would  be  seen,  either  out  upon  the  sidewalk,  or \
close  to  his  door,  turning  with  a  bow  lathe  ;  and \
next  a  range  of  families  all  along  the  street,  the \
women  knitting  or  sewing,  or  spinning  yarn,  and \
the  children  playing  about  on  the  pavements  near. \
Perhaps  one  of  the  oldest  of  the  children  would \
be  tending  the  baby,  either  holding  it  in  her \
arms,  or  rocking  it  to  sleep  in  a  round-bottomed \
basket  on  the  pavement.  These  round-bottomed \
baskets  were  all  the  cradles  they  seemed  to  have. \
But  what  pleased  Rollo  and  Josie  most  was  to \
stroll  along  a  street  in  a  part  of  the  town  where  the \
sailors  lived.  It  was  at  a  place  where  there  was \
a  wide  beach,  which  was  entirely  covered  with \
fishing  boats,  that  had  been  drawn  up  there  on \
the  sand.  Between  the  boats  and  the  street \
there  was  a  level  place,  where  the  fishermen's \
families  had  established  themselves.  Some  were \
making  or  mending  nets.  Some  were  frying  fish \
in  the  open  air.  Some  were  gathered  around  a \
big  stone  with  a  flat  top,  which  they  were  using \
for  a  table,  and  were  eating  their  breakfast  or \
\
\
190  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  beggars  in  Naples.  Aiiuoyaiice  from  them. \
\
their  dinner  there.  Some  were  lying  stretched \
out  upon  the  ground,  or  curled  up  in  corners,  fast \
asleep. \
\
It  was  a  very  curious  sight  to  see,  and  it  would \
have  been  a  very  pretty  one,  had  it  not  been  that \
almost  all  these  people  were  clothed  in  rags,  and \
looked  like  so  many  beggars.  Indeed,  there \
were  a  great  many  real  beggars  every  where \
about,  \'97  so  many,  in  fact,  that  no  lady  could  have \
any  peace  at  all  in  walking  about  the  streets  of \
Naples,  on  account  of  their  importunity.  Mrs. \
Gray  and  Rosie  would  have  liked  very  much  to \
have  walked  about  with  Hollo  and  Josie,  in  the \
excursions  which  they  made  in  this  way  ;  but  they \
could  not  do  it,  for  every  where  they  went,  such \
a  number  of  poor,  diseased,  crippled,  and  wretch- \
ed-looking objects  came  up  to  them,  and  gathered \
around  them,  as  to  destroy  all  the  pleasure. \
\
There  is  no  need  of  this  at  all ;  for  Naples  is  a \
very  thrifty  place,  and  the  people  that  live  in  it \
are  abundantly  able  to  take  care  of  their  poor. \
They  have,  in  fact,  built  hospitals  and  endowed \
them,  and  the  poor  people  who  have  no  friends  to \
take  care  of  them  might  go  to  the  hospitals  if \
they  chose.  But  as  the  climate  in  that  country \
is  mild,  and  they  can  live  well  enough  in  the  open \
air,  they  prefer  to  ramble  about  the  streets  and  beg, \
and  there  are  enough  inconsiderate  people  among \
\
\
THE  STREETS.  191 \
\
No  possible  way  of  escaping  the  beggars. \
\
the  visitors  always  at  Naples,  from  foreign  coun- \
tries, to  give  them  money  sufficient  to  keep  up  the \
system. \
\
Thus  every  person  among  the  lower  classes  in \
Naples,  who  has  any  disease,  or  infirmity,  or  mal- \
formation of  any  kind,  considers  it  a  treasure, \
and  comes  out  into  the  street  to  exhibit  it  to  all \
beholders,  as  a  means  of  gaining  money.  No \
imagination  can  conceive  more  shocking  and  dis- \
gusting spectacles  than  those  which  the  police  of \
Naples  allow  to  be  brought  up  right  before  every \
lady  or  gentleman  who  attempts  to  take  a  walk \
in  the  streets.  These  sights  meet  you  at  every \
turn.  Even  if  you  take  a  carriage,  you  do  not \
escape  from  them  ;  for  the  beggars  crowd  around \
the  carriage  when  you  get  into  it,  at  the  door  of \
the  hotel,  and  watch  for  it  there  when  you  come \
back.  And  when  you  stop  on  the  way  to  go  into \
a  shop,  all  that  are  in  that  street  at  the  time \
gather  up  and  wait  at  the  door  till  you  come  out ; \
and  while  you  are  getting  into  the  carriage,  and \
the  coachman  is  shutting  the  door  and  mounting \
upon  his  box,  they  implore,  and  moan,  and  beg,  and \
entreat  you  to  give  them  a  little  money.  They \
are  so  wretched,  they  say,  they  are  dying  of \
hunger. \
\
A  great  many  of  these  people  are  really  poor, \
no  doubt ;  but  they  have  no  right  thus  to  force \
\
\
192  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Evils  of  this  system.  Impostors.  Hollo  and  Josie. \
\
their  poverty  and  their  diseases  upon  the  atten- \
tion of  the  public,  when  other  modes,  and  far  bet- \
ter.modes,  are  provided  for  their  relief.  A  great \
many  of  them,  however,  are  impostors.  Indeed, \
one  of  the  greatest  objections  to  the  system  of  al- \
lowing the  poor  to  get  their  living  by  begging  in \
the  streets,  is  the  direct  tendency  of  it  to  encourage \
and  train  impostors.  No  one  can  possibly  know \
from  hearing  the  complaint  of  a  poor  person  by \
the  wayside,  or  from  the  appearance  which  he \
presents,  either  how  much  he  needs  help,  or  how \
much  help  he  may  have  already  received  ;  and  of \
course,  by  this  mode  of  dispensing  charity,  the \
best  possible  facilities  are  afforded  for  every \
species  of  deceit  and  imposture. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  understood  all  this,  and  she  saw \
that  if  every  body  would  firmly  and  persever- \
ingly  refuse  to  give  money  to  applicants  in  the \
public  streets,  the  system  of  making  an  ostenta- \
tious parade  of  misery,  real  and  counterfeited, \
that  now  prevails  in  Naples,  would  soon  come  to \
an  end.  She  accordingly  never  gave  any  thing, \
neither  did  Mr.  George  or  Rollo.  Indeed  Rollo \
and  Josie  were  seldom  molested  when  they  were \
walking  by  themselves,  for  the  beggars  \'97  consid- \
ering them  as  only  two  boys  \'97  did  not  expect  to \
get  any  thing  from  them. \
\
"  The  only  beggar  that  I  ever  gave  any  thing  to \
\
\
THE  STREETS.  193 \
\
Hollo  gives  once  to  a  beggar. \
\
in  Naples,"  said  Rollo,  "  was  a  poor  black  dog.  I \
gave  him  half  of  a  fried  cake  that  I  bought  at  a \
stall.  He  swallowed  it  in  an  instant.  I  call \
him  a  beggar  because  he  looked  up  into  my  face \
so  piteously,  though  he  did  not  ask  for  any  thing. \
He  did  not  speak  a  word.77 \
\
"  And  what  did  he  do  after  you  gave  him  the \
cake  ?  "  asked  Rosie. \
\
"  He  looked  up  a  moment  to  see  if  I  was  going \
to  give  him  any  more,"  said  Eollo,  "  and  then  he \
walked  away." \
13 \
\
\
194  ROLLO   IN   NAPLES. \
\
\
Mr.  George  projioses  a  plan  to  Rollo. \
\
\
CHAPTER   XI. \
AN  EXCURSION. \
\
"UNCLE  George/'  said  Eollo  one  morning, \
while  he  and  Mr.  George  were  eating  their \
breakfast  in  the  dining  room,  or,  as  they  call  it  in \
Europe,  the  satte  a  manger,  of  the  hotel,  "  how \
much  longer  are  you  going  to  be  in  studying  out \
those  things  in  the  museum  ?  " \
\
"Why?"  asked  Mr.  George.  "Does  your \
comfort  or  enjoyment  depend  in  any  way  on  the \
decision  of  that  question  ?  " \
\
"  Only  we  want  you  to  go  about  with  us,  some- \
where," said  Rollo. \
\
"  Why,  you  don't  need  me  to  go  about  with \
you,"  said  Mr.  George.  "  Contrive  some  sort \
of  excursion  yourself,  and  take  the  ladies  out  and \
amuse  them.  You  might  take  them  out  to  see \
Pozzuoli  and  the  Solfatara.  Besides,  you  would \
be  doing  me  a  great  service  if  you  would  go." \
\
"  How  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  Why,  I  shall  want  to  go  by  and  by  myself," \
said  Mr.  George,  "and  I  don't  want  to  have  any \
\
\
AN   EXCURSION.  195 \
\
Virgil's  Tomb.  The  grotto.  The  Solfatara. \
\
trouble  in  finding  the  way.  But  you  like  finding \
your  way  about.  Now,  I  wish  you  would  take  a \
carriage,  and  go  and  take  the  ladies  on  an  excur- \
sion along  the  bay  to  the  westward,  and  show \
them  Virgil's  Tomb,  and  the  Grotto  of  Posilipo, \
and  Pozzuoli,  where  the  apostle  Paul  landed  on \
his  famous  journey  to  Rome,  and  the  temple  of \
Serapis,  half  under  water,  and  the  great  amphi- \
theatre, and  the  Solfatara,  which  is  the  crater  of \
a  volcano  almost  extinct.  All  these  things  lie \
pretty  near  together  along  the  shores  of  the  bay \
to  the  westward  of  Naples,  and  you  can  go  and \
see  them  in  one  afternoon,  they  say.  If  you  go \
first,  you  will  find  out  all  about  the  excursion,  and \
what  we  do  about  guides  and  custodians  at  the \
different  places  ;  and  then,  when  I  get  ready,  you \
can  go  again  and  take  me,  and  I  shall  not  have \
any  trouble  about  it." \
\
"  Just  give  me  a  list  of  all  those  places,"  said \
Rollo,  eagerly. \
\
As  he  spoke  he  handed  Mr.  George  a  pencil \
and  a  piece  of  paper,  which  he  took  out  of  his \
pocket.  Mr.  George  wrote  down  the  list,  and \
Rollo,  taking  it,  went  up  to  Mrs.  Gray's  room. \
\
Rollo  proposed  the  plan  to  Mrs.  Gray  of  mak- \
ing the  excursion  which  Mr.  George  had  indicat- \
ed, and  she  was  very  much  pleased  with  it. \
\
"  We'll  study  it  all  out  in   the  guide  books \
\
\
196  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Rollo,  with  Kobe's  help,  studies  the  guide  book. \
\
this  evening,"  said  Rollo,  "  and  then  to-morrow \
we  will  go." \
\
Mrs.  Gray  approved  of  this  plan,  and  so  Rollo \
looked  out  in  the  guide  book  the  account  which \
was  given  there  of  the  several  places  and  objects \
of  interest  on  Mr.  George's  list,  and  read  the  pas- \
sages aloud  to  the  whole  party.  Rosie  sat  beside \
him  on  the  sofa,  and  helped  him  find  the  places, \
and  also  looked  over  him  while  he  read.  The \
account  which  was  given  of  the  places  was  very \
interesting  indeed. \
\
The  next  morning,  about  ten  o'clock,  after \
Mr.  George  had  gone  to  the  museum,  Rollo  and \
Josie  went  out  to  find  a  carriage.  They  in- \
quired at  the  hotel,  before  they  went,  how  much \
they  ought  to  pay.  When  they  reached  the  stand, \
they  looked  along  the  line,  and  finally  chose  one \
with  a  nice  and  pretty  blue  lining,  and  two  jet \
black  horses.  They  made  their  bargain  with  the \
coachman,  and  then  drove  to  the  door. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  were  ready,  and  soon  the \
party  were  driving  rapidly  along  on  their  way \
out  of  town,  passing  by  the  gates  of  the  public \
gardens,  which  lie  in  a  beautiful  situation  along \
the  shore,  in  the  western  part  of  the  city.  You \
have  a  view  of  these  gardens  in  the  engraving  ; \
and  in  the  distance,  over  the  tops  of  the  houses, \
you  see  a  long  ridge  of  high  land  running  down \
\
\
AN   EXCURSION.  199 \
\
They  set  out  oil  the  excursion.  The  grotto. \
\
towards  the  sea.  It  was  through  this  ridge  of \
high  land  that  the  famous  subterranean  passage \
way,  called  the  Grotto  of  Posilipo,  was  cut,  to \
open  a  way  for  the  road  into  the  country  with- \
out going  over  the  hill. \
\
After  driving  along  the  street  which  lies  be- \
tween the  gardens  and  the  houses  on  the  right,  as \
seen  in  the  engraving,  the  carriage  turned  into \
another  street,  which  runs  behind  the  houses,  and \
thence  gradually  ascended  towards  the  entrance \
to  the  grotto.  Just  before  reaching  the  entrance, \
the  land  seemed  to  rise  to  a  very  lofty  height \
before  and  on  each  side  of  the  road  ;  and  it  was \
so  built  up  in  terraces,  and  garden  walls,  and  plat- \
forms, and  staircases  of  villas,  that  there  seemed \
to  be  no  way  out.  Rosie  could  not  imagine,  she \
said,  where  they  could  possibly  be  going,  until  at \
length,  at  a  sudden  turn  between  two  lofty  walls, \
they  saw  the  immense  mouth  of  the  grotto  open- \
ing before  them. \
\
The  grotto  was  wide  enough  for  two  carriages \
to  pass,  and  very  high.  It  was  lighted  with \
lamps,  and  was  full  of  people  and  of  carriages  go- \
ing and  coming.  Here  and  there  along  the  walls \
of  rock  on  each  side,  near  the  entrance,  there  were \
a  great  many  curious  structures  to  be  seen,  and \
openings  cut  in  the  rock.  On  one  side  was  a \
chapel  excavated  in  the  rock,  with  an  iron  rail- \
\
\
200  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Entrance  to  the  grotto.  Staircase  leading  up  to  a  garden. \
\
ing  in  front  of  it,  to  separate  it  from  the  road. \
Within  this  railing  there  was  an  altar,  with  lamps \
burning  before  it,  and  a  priest  begging  money  of \
the  people  passing  by.  On  the  other  side  was  an \
ancient  monument,  with  a  long  Latin  inscription \
upon  it.  Above  were  a  great  many  different \
openings  cut  in  the  rock. \
\
Eollo  had  ordered  the  coachman  to  stop  at  the \
entrance  to  Virgil's  Tomb,  and  the  carriage  ac- \
cordingly drew  up  before  a  gate  which  seemed  to \
be  set  in  the  solid  wall  of  rock  which  formed  one \
side  of  the  entrance  to  the  grotto.  There  was  a \
man  standing  at  this  gate,  and  as  soon  as  he  saw \
the  carriage  stop,  he  unlocked  it.  They  all  got \
out  of  the  carriage,  and  went  in.  The  way  led \
up  a  long  and  narrow,  and  very  steep  flight  of \
stone  steps,  which  brought  the  party  out  at  last \
into  a  sort  of  vineyard,  or  garden,  on  the  surface \
of  the  ground  above. \
\
Here  there  was  a  path  which  ascended  some \
distance  higher,  among  grape  vines  and  fruit \
trees,  until  at  last  it  came  to  a  place  where  there \
was  a  beautiful  view  of  Naples  and  Vesuvius, \
and  all  the  bay.  After  stopping  a  little  time  to \
admire  this  view,  the  party  went  on,  following \
the  path,  which  now  began  to  descend  again,  and \
to  go  back  towards  the  mouth  of  the  grotto. \
Here,  after  climbing  up  and  down  among  a  great \
\
\
AN    EXCURSION.  201 \
\
Virgil's  Tomb.  The  party  drive  through  the  grotto. \
\
number  of  caverns  and  excavations  of  all  kinds \
cut  in  the  rock,  they  came  down  to  a  place  just \
over  the  top  of  the  mouth  of  the  great  grotto, \
where  the  structure  which  is  called  Virgil's  Tomb \
is  situated.  It  was  a  very  strange  place.  Rosie \
said  that  it  was  the  strangest  place  that  ever  she \
was  in.  Far  beneath  them  they  could  hear  the \
sound  of  the  carriages,  and  the  voices  of  men \
who  were  going  in  and  coming  out,  at  the  mouth \
of  the  great  grotto  below. \
\
After  remaining  here  a  few  minutes,  the  party \
all  went  back  down  the  path  through  the  vine- \
yard to  the  carriage  again. \
\
The  coachman  then  drove  on  through  the \
grotto.  It  was  full  of  carts,  carriages,  loaded \
donkeys,  and  foot  passengers,  all  going  to  or  re- \
turning from  Naples.  The  floor  of  it  was  paved \
with  stone,  and  at  different  distances  up  the \
sides  could  be  seen  the  marks  made  by  the  hubs \
of  wheels  in  former  ages,. when  the  roadway  was \
at  a  higher  level  than  it  is  now.  The  natural \
rock  is  so  soft  that  the  wheel  hubs  cut  into  it \
very  easily.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  floor  is \
paved  too,  for  the  rock  itself  would  not  stand  the \
wear. \
\
After  passing  through  the  grotto,  the  party \
emerged  into  a  wide  and  open  country,  which \
presented  beautiful  views  on  every  side.  The \
\
\
202  ROLLO  IN   NAPLES. \
\
Puteoli.  How  it  happened  that  St.  Paul  landed  here. \
\
road  was  excellent,  being  as  hard  and  smooth  as \
a  floor,  and  the  coachman  drove  on  at  great \
speed. \
\
The  party  came  at  length  in  sight  of  a  town, \
which  stood  on  a  promontory  jutting  out  into  the \
sea,  at  a  short  distance  before  them.  This  was \
the  town  called  in  ancient  times  Puteoli.  It  was \
in  those  days  the  great  seaport  of  the  whole  bay, \
for  Naples  had  not  then  been  built.  It  was  also \
the  nearest  good  port  to  Rome,  in  coming  from \
the  south,  and  it  was  accordingly  here  that  the \
apostle  Paul  landed  when  he  was  sent  to  Rome \
by  Festus,  in  consequence  of  his  having  appealed \
unto  Caesar,  when  accused  and  persecuted  by  the \
Jews.  There  are  the  ruins  of  an  old  mole  still \
to  be  seen  stretching  out  into  the  sea,  opposite \
to  the  port,  and  Rollo  said  he  thought  that  it \
must  have  been  on  that  mole  that  Paul  landed.* \
.  "  Puteoli  was  a  great  place  in  old  times,"  said \
Rollo  ;  "  and  that's  the  reason  why  they  had  such \
an  immense  amphitheatre  here.  "VYe  are  going \
to  see  the  ruins  of  it  presently ;  but  first,  we  are \
going  to  see  Solfatara," \
\
Just  at  the  entrance  to  Puteoli,  or  Pozzuoli,  as \
it  is  now  called,  the  party  came  to  a  bridge  where \
there  was  a  small  ascent,  that  made  it  necessary \
for  the  carriage  to  go  slowly  ;  and  here  a  great \
\
*  See  Acts  xxv,  9-12 ;  also  Acts  xxviu,  13,  14. \
\
\
AN   EXCURSION.  203 \
\
The  carriage  is  beset.  Hollo  selects  a  guide. \
\
number  of  men,  women,  and  children  were  as- \
sembled, some  guides,  but  most  of  them  beggars  ; \
and  as  soon  as  the  carriage  arrived,  they  all \
broke  out  at  once  with  such  a  noise  and  clamor, \
that  Rosie  was  for  a  moment  quite  alarmed. \
\
"  Never  fear,  Rosie/'  said  Rollo  ;  "  1  know  how \
to  manage  them." \
\
Ever  so  many  old  ragged  hats  and  caps  were \
stretched  out  towards  the  carriage,  and  three  or \
four  men  and  boys,  who  all  wanted  to  be  em- \
ployed as  guides,  began  struggling  together  to \
climb  up  upon  the  carriage,  to  get  the  seat  with \
the  driver.  Rollo  looked  at  them  all,  with  a  view \
of  making  a  selection  among  them.  He  chose  an \
intelligent-looking  boy  of  about  his  own  age,  that \
the  men  had  pushed  back. \
\
"Do  you  speak  French?"  said  Rollo  to  the \
boy,  of  course  speaking  in  French  himself  in \
asking  the  question. \
\
"A  little,  sir,"  said  the  boy. \
\
" Then  I  engage  you"  said  Rollo.  Then  touch- \
ing the  coachman,  he  pointed  to  the  boy,  and  said, \
"  Questo"  which  means  "this  one" \
\
So  the  coachman  pushed  the  other  men  back, \
and  made  room  for  the  boy  to  get  up  on  the  seat \
with  him.  He  then  whipped  up  the  horses,  and \
soon  the  other  guides  and  the  beggars,  with  all \
their  noise  and  clamor,  were  left  behind. \
\
\
1  204  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Rosie  is  much  pleased  with  Rollo's  management. \
\
"  You  managed  it  very  well,  Rollo,"  said  Mrs. \
Gray. \
\
"  Yes,  Rollo,"  said  Rosie,  "  you  did  it  very \
well  indeed.  Next  time  I  shall  not  be  at  all \
afraid." \
\
After  riding  a  little  farther,  the  coachman \
turned  into  a  sort  of  lane,  and  after  going  on  for \
some  way  in  the  lane,  he  stopped.  The  boy  got \
down,  and  said  that  it  would  be  necessary  for \
them  to  walk  the  rest  of  the  way.  So  the  whole \
party  descended  from  the  carriage,  and  began \
their  walk. \
\
After  going  on  for  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  mile, \
they  passed  through  a  gate  which  seemed  to  be \
connected  with  some  rude  sort  of  manufactory, \
and  then,  walking  on  a  little  farther,  they  found \
themselves  within  the  crater.  It  was  a  small, \
circular  valley,  surrounded  on  all  sides  by  a \
ridge  of  earth,  apparently  one  or  two  hundred \
feet  high.  The  valley  might  have  been  about  a \
third  or  a  quarter  of  a  mile  in  diameter.  The \
bottom  of  it  was  level,  and  was  covered  with  a \
scanty  vegetation.  The  soil  was  very  white,  as \
if  it  were  formed  of  substances  calcined  by  ex- \
posure to  the  fire. \
\
An  old  man  met  them  at  the  gate,  and  led  the \
way  in  towards  the  middle  of  the  crater,  along  a \
sort  of  cart  road.  After  a  while  he  stopped,  and \
\
\
AN  EXCURSION.  205 \
\
The  old  crater.  Resonance  of  the  ground. \
\
took  up  a  large  stone  \'97  as  large  as  a  man's  head. \
This  stone  he  threw  down  with  great  force  upon \
the  ground  two  or  three  times,  to  show  how  hol- \
low the  ground  sounded.  It  did  sound  very  hol- \
low indeed,  and  the  peculiar  resonance  which  is \
produced  here  by  this  experiment  is  generally \
considered  as  proving  that  there  is  a  great  void \
space  below  the  surface,  and  that  the  bottom  of \
the  crater  may  some  day  or  other  fall  in. \
\
At  a  little  distance  farther  on,  on  the  other  side \
of  the  crater,  and  close  at  the  foot  of  the  ridge \
of  earth  that  surrounds  it,  there  was  to  be  seen \
a  column  of  dense  smoke,  or  rather  of  vapor, \
coming  up  out  of  the  ground. \
\
The  guide  led  the  way  towards  this  place,  and \
all  the  party  followed  him.  As  they  approached \
it,  they  heard  a  roaring  sound,  which  grew  loud- \
er and  louder  as  they  drew  near.  When  they \
arrived  at  the  spot,  they  saw  that  the  steam  was \
issuing  from  the  mouth  of  a  cavern  that  opened \
there ;  and  as  it  came  out,  it  made  a  noise  like \
the  roaring  of  a  steam  pipe  when  the  engineer  is \
blowing  off  steam. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  and  the  three  children  stood  gazing \
at  this  phenomenon  for  some  time  in  silence.  At \
length  Rollo  said,  "  What  an  astonishing  blast \
that  is,  to  be  coming  up  out  of  the  earth,  day  and \
night,  continually  and  forever  !  " \
\
\
206  HOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Tt;e  ground  very  hot.  Manufactory  of  alum. \
\
"  The  ground  is  very  hot  all  about  here,'"'  said \
the  boy.  "  See  !  " \
\
So  saying,  he  pointed  to  the  old  man,  who  was \
at  work  not  far  from  the  mouth  of  the  cave,  dig- \
ging into  the  ground  a  little  way  with  a  sharp  hoe. \
He  dug  down  a  few  inches,  and  then  took  up  a \
hoe  full  of  the  earth,  and  held  it  out  to  Rollo \
to  try  it  with  his  fingers,  that  he  might  feel \
how  hot  it  was.  Rollo  put  his  fingers  upon  the \
earth,  but  he  could  not  hold  them  there  an \
instant. \
\
It  seemed  to  Mrs.  Gray  that  it  must  be  danger- \
ous to  remain  long  in  such  a  place ;  and  so  she \
prepared  to  move  away,  and  Rollo  and  Josie,  as \
they  had  now  seen  all  that  there  was  to  be  seen \
at  this  place,  followed  her.  They  went  on  by \
the  road,  round  to  another  part  of  the  crater, \
where  there  was  some  sort  of  manufactory  of \
alum.  The  alum  was  made  from  the  saline \
earth  which  was  found  there,  and  the  evaporat- \
ing basins  used  in  the  process,  instead  of  being \
placed  over  a  fire,  were  simply  set  in  the  ground, \
so  that  the  process  of  evaporation  was  carried  on \
by  the  natural  heat  of  the  soil. \
\
After  leaving  this  place,  the  party  followed \
the  circuit  of  the  road  still  farther,  until  at  last  it \
brought  them  back  to  the  place  where  they  had \
entered  the  crater ;  and  here,  after  paying  the \
\
\
AN  EXCURSION.  207 \
\
The  party  visit  an  ancient  amphitheatre. \
\
old  man  who  had  conducted  them  around,  they \
passed  out  through  the  gate,  and  went  down  the \
lane  to  their  carriage. \
\
"  Now  to  the  amphitheatre,"  said  Rollo,  ad- \
dressing the  coachman. \
\
So  they  all  got  into  the  carriage  again,  and  the \
coachman  drove  down  the  lane  ;  and  after  going \
back  towards  the  town  a  little  way,  and  making \
various  turns,  he  stopped  at  last  before  a  great \
wooden  gate.  A  man  in  a  certain  uniform  ap- \
peared at  the  gate  and  unlocked  it,  and  they  all \
went  in. \
\
They  saw  before  them  the  walls  of  an  immense \
ruin.  The  wall  was  of  a  curved  form,  and  there \
were  vast  openings  in  it,  like  arches,  below. \
The  man  in  uniform,  who  was  the  custodian,  as \
they  call  him,  of  the  ruin,  led  the  way  along  a \
path  into  one  of  these  arches,  and  thence  ascend- \
ed a  massive  flight  of  old  stone  steps,  to  a  place \
which  commanded  a  view  of  the  interior. \
\
They  saw  that  the  amphitheatre  was  of  an \
oval  form,  and  was  built  with  seats  rising  one \
above  another,  all  around,  to  a  great  height.' \
The  seats  were  all  of  stone,  and  at  regular  inter- \
vals between  them  were  flights  of  steps  for \
going  up  and  down.  In  the  centre,  below,  was  a \
large  level  space,  called  the  arena.  All  around \
the  arena,  and  under  the  seats,  were  immense \
\
\
208  ROLLO    IN    N-APLES. \
\
They  ramble  about  among  the  arches. \
\
galleries  or  passage  ways  among  the  arches, \
some  of  which  were  below  the  level  of  the  ground. \
Some  of  these  galleries  were  for  the  spectators  to \
use  in  passing  from  one  part  of  the  building  to \
another,  and  others  were  used  for  the  dens  and \
cages  of  the  wild  beasts  that  were  kept  there  to \
fight  in  the  arena,  for  the  amusement  of  the \
people. \
\
The  guide  led  the  way  through  all  these  places, \
and  it  was  not  until  after  walking  about  through \
them  for  some  time  that  Mrs.  Gray  and  the \
children  obtained  a  full  conception  of  the  magni- \
tude of  the  structure.  The  guide  told  them  that \
it  contained  room  for  forty  thousand  people. \
\
"  What  a  dreadful  place  it  must  have  been  !  " \
said  Rosie,  as  she  followed  the  guide  round \
through  the  subterranean  chambers. \
\
"  They  used  to  hoist  the  cages  that  contained \
the  wild  beasts  up  through  these  openings,"  said \
the  guide,  pointing  to  some  large  circular  open- \
ings in  the  masonry  above,  "and  then  open  the \
gates,  and  let  them  out  into  the  arena.  The \
cages  were  so  contrived  that  when  the  keeper \
opened  the  door  to  let  the  beast  out,  by  the  same \
motion  he  shut  himself  in,  so  as  to  be  safe  out  of \
his  way.  He  then,  afterwards,  got  out  behind, \
by  another  door." \
\
There  was  a  very  wide  and  deep  canal  open \
\
\
AN  EXCURSION.  209 \
\
Means  of  flooding  the  arena.  Combats  of  wild  beasts. \
\
in  the  centre  of  the  arena,  with  a  communication \
for  water  connected  with  a  vast  reservoir  a  little \
way  off.  By  means  of  this  canal  the  whole  of  the \
arena  could  be  flooded  with  water,  so  as  to  form \
a  little  lake  for  naval  battles.  The  guide  took \
the  party  down  to  the  bottom  of  this  canal,  and \
showed  them  a  large,  circular  opening  in  the \
masonry  below,  for  drawing  off  water.  This \
opening  connected  with  a  conduit,  which  ran  off \
towards  the  sea. \
\
The  spectacles  which  were  exhibited  by  the \
ancients  in  such  buildings  as  these  were  real \
combats  of  beasts  with  one  another,  or  of  beasts \
with  men,  and  sometimes  of  men  with  one  an- \
other. At  first,  the  men  who  were  compelled  to \
maintain  these  combats  were  convicts,  who  were \
condemned  to  them  as  a  punishment  for  their \
crimes.  The  beasts  were  lions,  tigers,  and  other \
ferocious  animals  that  were  caught  in  the  forests \
in  Africa,  or  in  other  remote  parts  of  the  Roman \
empire,  and  brought  to  the  great  cities  for  this \
special  purpose. \
\
A  great  many  of  the  early  Christians  were \
compelled  to  meet  these  beasts  in  such  conflicts, \
in  the  persecutions  which  they  endured.  The \
rulers  of  the  country  chose  to  consider  them \
as  criminals  for  being  believers  in  Jesus,  and \
so  doomed  them  to  this  dreadful  punishment'. \
14 \
\
\
210  ROLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  temple  of  berap;s.  Rising  and  falling  of  the  c<  aat. \
\
It  was  shocking  to  think  of  the  scenes  that \
had  probably  been  enacted  in  this  very  amphi- \
theatre ;  and  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie,  after  they  had \
examined  it  in  every  part,  were  not  sorry  to  go \
away. \
\
Rollo  next  directed  the  coachman  to  drive  to \
the  Temple  of  Serapis.  The  curiosity  of  the \
Temple  of  Serapis,  which  stands  on  the  shore,  just \
at  the  entrance  of  the  town,  is,  that  it  is  partly \
under  water.  It  seems  that  from  the  effects  of \
earthquakes,  or  from  some  other  similar  agency, \
the  whole  coast  in  this  region  rises  and  falls  in \
the  course  of  ages,  and  that  at  the  present  time  it \
is  several  feet  lower  than  it  was  in  the  days  of  the \
Romans.  The  consequence  is,  that  many  struc- \
tures which  were  originally  built  upon  the  land, \
are  now  partly  or  wholly  submerged  in  the  sea. \
In  parsing  along  the  coast  in  a  boat,  you  can  see  a \
great  many  of  these  ruins  in  the  water.  There \
is  one,  however,  which  can  be  seen  without  going \
out  in  a  boat  at  all.  It  is  a  temple  called  the \
Tempk  of  Serapis. \
\
It  stands  on  the  margin  of  the  shore,  and  the \
floor  of  it  is  now  about  a  foot  or  two  under  water. \
This  floor  is  very  extensive,  and  a  great  many \
columns  and  other  superstructures  are  still  stand- \
ing upon  it,  the  whole  of  which  can  be  easily  ex- \
plored by  the  visitor,  by  means  of  a  raised  stone \
\
\
AN  EXCURSION.  211 \
\
The  party  walk  about  the  ruins. \
\
pathway,  made  by  the  government,  which  trav- \
erses it  in  all  directions.  It  is  a  very  curious \
place  indeed. \
\
Rollo  and  his  party  were  admitted  to  the  ruin \
through  a  gate,  kept  as  usual  by  the  custodian \
appointed  by  the  government ;  and  then  they \
walked  all  over  the  ruin  upon  the  raised  stone \
path.  They  looked  down  through  the  water,  and \
saw  the  marble  floor  of  the  temple  below,  and \
the  columns  rising  up  from  it  with  their  bases \
submerged.  There  is  proof  that  at  one  time \
these  ruins  were  fifteen  or  twenty  feet  lower  than \
they  are  now,  and  that  they  have  since  come  up \
again.  The  next  earthquake  may  depress  the \
whole  coast  again,  in  which  case  the  floor  of  the \
temple  will  be  once  more  deep  under  water  ;  or  it \
may  raise  it  so  as  to  bring  the  ruins  all  up  once \
more,  high  and  dry. \
\
Rollo  wished  very  much  to  take  a  boat,  and  go \
out  and  see  the  ruins  that  lie  under  water  along \
the  coast ;  but  he  knew  very  well  that  Mrs,  Gray \
would  not  like  to  go  out  in  a  boat,  nor  to  have \
Rosie  go,  at  least  unless  Mr.  George  were  with \
them,  and  so  he  did  not  propose  the  plan.  He, \
however,  only  reserved  it  for  the  time  when  he \
should  come  again  to  see  the  ruins,  in  company \
with  his  uncle. \
\
After  concluding  the  visit  to  the  Temple  of  Se- \
\
\
212  EOLLO  IN  NAPLES. \
\
Kollo  brings  his  party  safely  home. \
\
rapis,  Rollo  paid  the  boy  whom  he  had  taken  for \
the  guide  when  he  first  arrived  at  Pozzuoli,  and \
then  the  party  drove  home. \
\
Mrs.  Gray  insisted  on  paying  the  whole  ex- \
pense of  this  excursion  ;  and  she  was  so  much \
pleased  with  Rollo's  management  of  it,  that  she \
said  she  wished  that  he  would  plan  another  excur- \
sion as  soon  as  possible. \
\
\
THE   ORANGE   GARDENS.          213 \
\
Situation  of  Sorrento.  Lemons  and  oranges. \
\
\
CHAPTER    XII. \
\
THE   ORANGE   GARDENS. \
\
THE  last  excursion  which  Hollo  made  in  the \
environs  of  Naples,  was  to  a  beautiful  valley \
which  was  situated  some  mile's  to  the  south  of  the \
city,  on  the  shores  of  the  bay,  which  was  full  of \
groves  of  lemons  and  oranges.  The  place  was \
called  Sorrento.  The  town  of  Sorrento  and  its \
environs  occupy  a  broad  plain,  which  is  elevat- \
ed somewhat  from  the  sea,  and  yet,  being  sur- \
rounded, on  all  sides  towards  the  land,  with \
ranges  of  very  elevated  land,  it  is  really  a  val- \
ley. The  reason  why  the  oranges  and  lemons \
grow  so  well  there  is,  partly  because  the  soil  is \
very  rich,  and  partly  because  the  valley  opens \
towards  the  south,  and  is  sheltered  by  the  moun- \
tains towards  the  north,  and  this  makes  the  cli- \
mate of  the  spot  very  warm. \
\
Rollo  himself  formed  the  plan  of  this  excursion. \
One  evening  his  uncle  came  home  from  the  muse- \
um looking  very  tired.  He  laid  his  note  book \
upon  the  table,  threw  himself  down  upon  the  sofa, \
and  said, \'97 \
\
\
214  HOLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
Mr.  George  comes  home  from  the  museum  very  tired. \
\
"  Rollo,  I  am  tired  out." \
\
"  What  makes  you  so  tired  ?  "  asked  Rollo. \
\
"  Hard  work  in  the  museum,"  said  Mr.  George  ; \
"  but  I  have  got  through.  To-morrow  I  mean  to \
rest,  and  I  wish  you  would  take  me  off  to-mor- \
row, somewhere  on  an  excursion.  I  don't  care \
where  it  is,  provided  I  have  nothing  to  think  or \
to  say  about  it.  I  don't  want  even  to  know \
where  I  am  going." \
\
"  Shall  I  invite  Mrs.  Gray  and  Rosie  to  go \
too? "asked  Rollo. \
\
"  I  don't  care  whether  you  do  or  not,"  said \
Mr.  George.  "  Do  as  you  please,  provided  I  have \
nothing  to  say  about  it.  Make  all  the  arrange- \
ments, and  call  me  to-morrow  morning  when  you \
are  ready." \
\
Accordingly,  the  next  morning,  about  half \
an  hour  after  breakfast,  Rollo  went  into  Mr. \
George's  room,  and  told  him  that  he  was  ready. \
So  Mr.  George  followed  Rollo  down  stairs.  He \
found  a  carriage  at  the  door,  with  Mrs.  Gray \
and  Rosie  sitting  in  it.  Josie  was  there,  too,  on \
the  box  with  the  driver. \
\
Mr.  George  got  in,  and  Rollo  directed  the \
coachman  to  go  on. \
\
The  coachman  drove  for  half  an  hour  through \
the  busiest  part  of  the  city,  and  at  length  stopped \
at  the  railway  station. \
\
\
THE   ORANGE   GARDENS.          215 \
\
Hollo  plans  an  excursion.  Clamor  of  the  coachmen. \
\
"  Now,  uncle  George,"  said  Rollo,  "  you  must \
go  into  the  waiting  room  with  Mrs.  Gray  and \
Rosie,  while  I  get  the  tickets." \
\
Rollo  bought  tickets  for  a  place  called  Castel- \
lamare,  which  is  a  romantic  town  built  on  the \
shore  of  the  bay  at  the  foot  of  Vesuvius.  It  is \
famous,  among  other  things,  for  the  hot  springs \
of  medicinal  water  which  come  up  out  of  the \
ground  there,  I  suppose  from  under  the  volcano, \
or  from  so  near  the  neighborhood  of  it  that  the \
water  is  heated  by  the  volcanic  fires.  Castella- \
mare  is  a  great  naval  station  for  the  government \
of  the  country,  and  for  this  reason,  as  well  as \
on  account  of  the  springs,  they  have  made  a  rail- \
road to  it  from  Naples. \
\
On  coming  out  into  the  street  at  the  station  at \
Castellamare,  Rollo  and  his  party  were  greeted \
by  a  sudden  burst  of  clamor  from  a  crowd  of \
coachmen  and  guides,  all  wanting  to  be  hired. \
\
"  Pay  no  attention  to  all  these  people,  uncle \
George,"  said  Rollo,  "  but  follow  me." \
\
So  saying,  Rollo  pushed  forward,  followed  by \
his  party,  until  he  reached  a  place  where  he \
could  see  the  carriages.  There  were  a  great \
number  of  them.  They  were  harnessed  with \
three  horses  to  each.  They  were  there  to  take \
travellers  on  excursions  along  the  coast,  and \
among  the  neighboring  mountains.  They  were \
\
\
216  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
How  Hollo  managed  the  affair.  Magnificent  drive. \
\
ready  to  go  to  Sorrento,  or  to  Psestum,  or  to \
Amalfi,  or  wherever  any  travellers  wished  to  go. \
\
Rollo  paid  no  attention  to  the  clamor,  but \
quietly  surveyed  the  carriages  which  were  stand- \
ing in  the  street  before  him.  The  coachmen  of \
some  of  them  were  on  the  sidewalk;  those  of \
others  stood  up  in  their  carriages,  shouting  all \
the  time  to  Rollo,  and  cracking  their  whips. \
Rollo  at  last  selected  the  one  which  he  thought \
would  be  best  for  the  purpose,  and  went  quietly \
to  it.  Partly  by  signs,  and  partly  by  disconnect- \
ed words  in  Italian,  he  made  a  bargain  with  the \
man  to  take  them  to  Sorrento  and  back ;  and  then \
\'95the  carriage  drove  up  to  the  sidewalk,  and  all \
the  party  got  in.  Rollo  also  selected  a  guide. \
The  guide  mounted  on  the  box  with  the  coach- \
man. Josie  took  a  seat  inside. \
\
The  party  enjoyed  a  magnificent  ride  along \
the  coast  for  eight  or  ten  miles.  The  road  was \
excellent.  It  was  built  on  the  declivities  of  the \
mountains,  which  here  crowd  close  upon  the  sea. \
It  was  very  smooth  and  hard,  and  was  finished \
with  a  sidewalk,  and  with  avenues  of  trees,  al- \
most all  the  way.  On  one  side  it  looked  down \
upon  the  blue  and  beautiful  bay,  and  on  the  other \
upon  the  mountains,  which  were  almost  every \
where  terraced  up  to  form  vineyards  and  olive \
groves,  and  presented  to  view  a  perpetual  sue- \
\
\
THE   ORANGE   GARDENS.          217 \
\
Valley  of  Sorrento.  Walls  of  the  Gardens. \
\
cession  of  villas,  convents,  churches,  summer \
houses,  and  gardens. \
\
At  length  they  came  in  sight  of  the  valley  of \
Sorrento.  It  lay  broadly  expanded  before  them, \
full  of  groves  of  orange  and  lemon  trees,  among \
which  were,  to  be  seen  every  where  lofty  walls \
of  enclosure  running  in  all  directions,  and  roofs \
of  houses,  and  villas,  without  number,  rising \
among  the  trees.  Towards  the  sea  the  ground \
terminated  in  a  range  of  cliffs  that  were  almost \
as  smooth  and  perpendicular  as  a  wall. \
\
The  carriage  gradually  descended  into  this \
valley,  and  then  went  on  across  it.  Eollo  and \
his  party,  in  thus  riding  along,  had  the  lofty  walls \
of  the  orange  gardens  on  each  side  of  the  way, \
while  here  and  there  there  appeared  a  house,  a \
shop,  a  church,  or  a  hotel.  After  traversing  this \
region  for  nearly  half  an  hour,  the  carriage \
stopped  in  the  stable  yard  of 'an  inn,  and  the \
party  descended.  The  guide  was  going  to  show \
them  the  way  to  a  garden  where  they  could \
go  in. \
\
They  walked  along  some  way,  still  between \
lofty  walls,  with  branches  of  orange  and  lemon \
trees,  full  of  fruit,  seen  every  where  above  them, \
until  at  length  the  guide  stopped  before  a  massive \
gateway,  where  he  knocked  loud  and  long,  by \
means  of  an  ancient-looking  iron  knocker.  Pres- \
\
\
218  ROLLO   IN  NAPLES. \
\
The  party  enter  cue  of  the  gardens.  Gatheriug  the  fruit. \
\
ently  a  man  came  down  a  sort  of  road,  which \
led  through  the  garden,  and  unlocking  the  gate, \
let  the  party  in. \
\
The  road  led  to  a  house  which  was  in  the  cen- \
tre of  the  garden.  The  man  who  opened  the \
gate,  however,  knew  very  well  that  the  visitors \
came,  not  to  see  the  people  in  the  house,  but  to \
gather  and  eat  some  oranges.  So  he  led  the \
way  towards  the  part  of  the  garden  where  the \
fruit  was  the  most  abundant  and  the  sweetest. \
After  a  while  he  came  to  a  place  where  there \
was  a  seat.  The  party  took  their  places  on  this \
seat,  while  the  guide  brought  them  oranges  from \
the  neighboring  trees.* \
\
He  supplied  them  very  abundantly.  He \
brought  them  not  only  all  that  they  wanted  to \
eat,  but  gathered  also  a  large  number  in  clusters \
on  the  branches,  for  them  to  carry  to  the  carriage \
and  take  home. \
\
The  party  remained  in  this  garden  for  more \
than  an  hour,  and  then  giving  the  gardener  a \
small  piece  of  money, \'97  the  guide  told  them \
how  much  it  was  proper  to  give,  \'97  they  went \
away.  They  rambled  about  some  time  longer  in \
Sorrento,  and  visited  the  brow  of  the  cliffs  which \
overhung  the  sea. \
\
THE   ORANGE   GARDENS.          219 \
\
Return  to  Naples.  Departure  for  Rome. \
\
At  length  they  went  back  to  the  carriage,  and \
set  out  on  their  return  to  Naples,  with  all  the \
vacant  spaces  in  the  carriage  filled  with  the  clus- \
ters of  oranges  which  they  had  gathered  in  the \
garden. \
\
The  next  day  after  this,  Mr.  George  and  Hollo \
closed  their  visit  in  Naples,  and  set  out  in  the \
diligence  for  Rome. }