{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red242\green242\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c96078\c96078\c96078;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
An earthquake \
\
\
THE \
\
\
SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII \
\
\
OR \
\
\
BY A WAY THEY KNEW NOT. \
WA Tale of the First Century. \
\
\
BY \
\
\
EMILY SARAH HOLT, \
\
\
\
\
THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'97\'979 \'97\'97~ \
\
\
CHAPTER L \
\
\
CALPHURNIUS THE SLAVE-DEALER. \
\
\
\'93 Tribes of the wandering foot and weary breast, \
How shall ye flee away and be at rest?\'94 \'97Bvyron. \
\
YOUNG Roman lady sat at work in a small room, \
elegantly furnished. The walls were adorned with \
various devices, and in the middle of each of three \
sides of the room was an encaustic painting of supe- \
\
rior execution. Pilasters of volcanic stone, decorated with leaves \
\
in stucco, projected slightly into the apartment. Just below \
the cornice, the wall, painted white, was adorned with pictures \
of Tritons and Satyrs, boys riding on dolphins, flying horses, \
garlands of flowers, groups of fruit, and girls playing the cittern. \
\
The table which stood in the middle of the room was of \
\
Parian marble, and its feet, in the form of lion\'92s claws, were of \
\
silver. The seats were made of ebony, inlaid with ivory, and \
\
the feet of these also were of silver. There was no carpet or \
matting on the floor, and indeed it would have been a pity to \
hide the beautiful tesselated pavement ; but in one corner lay \
\
a soft silky rug, on which amicably reposed a slender Italian \
\
greyhound and a white Maltese shock-dog. On a silver rod \
\
suspended from the roof was perched a green parrot, and on \
another at the opposite end of the room, sat a pair of beautiful \
snowy Sicilian doves, a nightingale, and one of those abnormal \
creatures termed a white blackbird. The fourth side of the \
\
\
8 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
apartment was partly closed by a thick and heavy curtain, of \
a dark claret colour. Its solitary inhabitant, a girl of twenty \
years of age, occupied one of the ebony seats. Her figure was \
slight and graceful, her complexion clear and pale; her hair \
jet-black, and wound round her head in long plaits, forming \
something like a coronet on the summit; her eyes were large \
and very dark, with a peculiar look, which seemed half bewil- \
dered and half mournful, though round the lips played a very \
different expression, indicative of amiability of disposition and \
even playfulness of temper. The portion of her dress which \
was visible, consisted merely of a long white linen garment, \
called a stola, elaborately worked at the bottom, and fastened \
round the waist by a rich girdle; the arms and throat were \
bare, the feet were covered by richly ornamented slippers. \
Her employment was the embroidery of another garment simi- \
lar to the one which she wore; and she occasionally glanced \
up from her work to speak one or two cheerful words to the \
birds perched on the silver rods, which on their parts sang and \
chirped to her with great vivacity, and no little noise. The \
nightingale and blackbird poured out floods of melody, while \
the doves cooed in low soft tones, and every now and then the \
parrot broke in with a discordant remark. \
\
\'91*Ah, my pretty doves!\'94 said the girl in Latin\'97but very \
differently accentuated Latin from that spoken by Englishmen, \
\'97\'91J wish I knew what you mean by your sweet cooing! Are \
you thinking of the woods of Trinacria, where you were caught, \
and where you built your nests in the trees, among the green \
leaves of spring? Well, if I knew all that I wish I knew, I \
should be very learned ; but I would gladly give all other know- \
ledge for the supply of that one want which so greatly distresses \
me. If I only knew whether the gods will vea//y hear us when \
we call to them! Is there any one of them who will?\'94 \
\
*\'93Go to sleep !\'97go to sleep!\'94 cried the parrot from above \
her head. \
\
\'91*Small chance there is of my doing that with you in the ala, \
Psyche !\'94 said the girl, looking up laughingly to the handsome \
bird, which, turning its head on one side, gazed down upon her \
as if it thought it had said a very clever thing. \'91 But I must \
\
\
CALPHURNIUS THE SLAVE-DEALER. 9 \
\
\
not sleep, my pretty Psyche, in any case; for my work will \
scarcely progress under those circumstances, and the pattern is \
too elaborate to trust to any hands but my own. Who is com- \
ing ?\'94 she added in a different tone. \
\
The heavy claret-coloured curtain was pushed aside, and \
another girl rather older than the embroideress thrust in her \
head at the corner. \
\
\'93Camilla! Camilla! make haste and come here! Our \
mother is buying a new slave to wait upon you and me.\'94 \
\
Camilla sprang up, and hastily throwing her work on her seat, \
obeyed the summons. From the ala, withdrawing the curtain, \
she passed into the atrium, a large and splendid apartment, in \
the midst of which played a silvery fountain, and above it the \
roof was open to the air. \'91Tesselated pavement formed the \
floor, and at intervals all round stood elegantly draped statues on \
pedestals. Here and there were placed rich couches and seats, \
and on one of the latter a lady of middle age was seated, evidently \
the mother of the two girls who had just entered. She was \
dressed, like her daughters, in a long white embroidered stola ; \
but, loosely thrown over it, she wore a palla, or scarf shawl, of \
soft woollen material, and deep yellow in colour. Near her \
stood a tall, swarthy, stalwart man, and a young woman, very \
fragile and delicate in appearance, with regular features, very \
white and thin. She wore a rough woollen garment of dark \
colour, which hung ungirded from her neck to her feet ; and the \
latter were bare. The lady turned her head as her daughters \
approached. \
\
\'93Come hither, girls,\'94 she said, \'93and see whether you like this \
slave-girl. I have some thoughts of buying her for you, if Cal- \
phurnius do not ask too high a price. What say you, Marcia?\'94 \
\
\'93Oh! I should like it very much, Mother.\'94 \
\
* And you, Camilla?\'94 \
\
Camilla and the slave-girl had been looking at each other \
while her mother was speaking. There was something in the \
countenance of the slave peculiarly attractive to the young \
Roman lady, and when her mother appealed to her, she bent \
\
\
down to her, and whispered, \'93 Mother, I do so wish you would \
buy her !\'94 \
\
\
fe) THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
** Well,\'94 returned the lady, \'93my daughters seem to like the \
look of the slave, Calphurnius ; what is her name, and whence \
does she come?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93From Greece, Domina, and her name is Sophronia.\'94 \
\
** And your price ?\'94 \
\
\'93Two thousand drachme.\'94 * \
\
\'93Two thousand drachmze! Do you mean to ruin me, \
Calphurnius ?\'94 \
\
\'91That would be hard to do, Domina!\'94 answered the slave- \
dealer, with a fawning smile. \
\
\'93There, take the girl away. Let Julia Felix or Cornelia \
Vipsania give you two thousand drachmze\'97I shall not.\'94 \
\
The slave-dealer bowed very low. He well knew that few \
ladies in Pompeii, beside the one before whom he stood, were \
at all likely to give such a price as he had asked ; and he might \
as well moderate his demands for her as for any other. \
\
\'91You are hard upon me, Domina!\'94 he said with a shrug \
of his shoulders. \'91But, in consideration that I am dealing \
with so good a customer, and so universally esteemed a lady, \
I will make a small abatement, though I declare to you that it \
will give me very little profit. I will say eighteen hundred \
drachme.\'94 \
\
\'91Vou must come down lower than that, Calphurnius, before \
you will deal with me,\'94 answered the lady,\'97whose name was \
Flavia Aurelia Cotta,\'97with a hard smile. ; \
\
\'93Well, then, Domina, fifteen hundred; but I swear I shall \
gain nothing on the transaction.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2Six hundred\'97not a drachma more,\'94 returned Aurelia. \
\
\'93Six hundred, Domina! It is positive ruin! you could not \
wish to entail such a loss upon a poorman! I gave seven hun- \
dred and fifty,\'94 replied the slave-dealer, having apparently for- \
gotten his assertion the minute before, that he should make no \
profit upon fifteen hundred drachme. \
\
\'93JT do not believe a word of that, Calphurnius,\'94 answered \
Aurelia with perfect coolness. \'93I am an old customer of \
yours, as you know, and am thoroughly acquainted with the \
bare-faced lies which you generally think it necessary to tell ; be- \
\
* About \'a370. \
\
\
CALPHURNIUS THE SLAVE-DEALER. II \
\
\
sides, I know well that you always ask three times the price you \
mean to take. I don\'92t believe that the girl cost you a denarius \
more than five hundred drachme, and I am offering you six.\'94 \
\
Calphurnius grinned as if she had paid him a compliment. \
\'93Ah Domina, you always have your own way. Come now, \
fourteen hundred drachme.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Six hundred,\'94 said Aurelia, gathering her palla round her. \
\
\'93Twelve hundred !\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Six hundred,\'94 repeated the lady, rising. \
\
\'abA thousand !\'94 \
\
\'93Six hundred\'97not another denarius. Farewell, Calphur- \
nius.\'94 And Aurelia turned as if to leave the place. \
\
\'93Come, come, Domina, we shall not quarrel. But you are \
very hard upon me\'97vzery hard.\'94 \
\
\'91Six hundred?\'94 said Aurelia, looking back over her shoul- \
der, and in an interrogative tone. \
\
\'93Six hundred, Domina, as you will have it so,\'94 answered \
the slave-dealer submissively. \
\
Aurelia turned back, and resumed her seat, while Calphurnius \
unloosed the cords which bound the slender hands of the pur- \
chased maiden. \
\
* And I will say this, Domina,\'94 added he, \'93that I believe you \
will have a good slave for your bargain. Of her good looks you \
can judge for yourself, and she is extremely docile\'97indeed, I \
have not needed to give her a single whipping since I pur- \
chased her. Be careful, Sophronia, that you behave as well \
to your new mistresses.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91 Here is the money,\'94 said Aurelia. \'91Farewell, Calphurnius. \
Take the slave with you, daughters, and amuse yourselves by \
instructing her in her duties.\'94 \
\
Calphurnius, with low reverences, departed, and Marcia and \
Camilla summoned Sophronia to follow them to the ala, where \
they seated themselves. Camilla resumed her embroidery, \
while Marcia played absently with the greyhound, Sophronia \
standing before them. \
\
\'93Sophronia is your name?\'94 said the elder of the sisters. \
\'93(We really must put her into better clothes, Camilla.) Soph- \
ronia is your name ?\'94 \
\
\
12 THE SLAVE GIikL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'91Ves, Domina,\'94 responded the slave, speaking Latin with a \
decidedly foreign accent, but in a very sweet low voice. \
\
"A. Greek ?\'94 \
\
\'93 My father was a Greek.\'94 \
\
\'93\'a2 And you have lived in Greece ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93No, Domina, I never saw Greece.\'94 \
\
Both sisters uttered an exclamation of surprise. \
\
\'91Where have you lived, then ?\'94 \
\
Sophronia blushed scarlet, and her eyes filled with tears. \'93TI \
will tell the truth, Domine,\'94 she said in a slightly tremulous voice. \
*\'93\'91 My mother was a Jewess, and I have always lived in Jerusalem.\'94 \
\
Well might that young girl, standing before a Roman, blush \
and tremble to confess herself one of that despised, down-trodden \
race, the conquered inhabitants of Judzea. The utter destruc- \
tion of Jerusalem had occurred nine years before our story \
opens; hundreds and thousands of Jews and Jewesses had been \
sold for slaves throughout the Roman Empire, until, as their \
great Lawgiver had predicted, \'93no man would buy them.\'94 \
Certainly Aurelia Cotta would never have given six hundred \
drachme, nor even a twentieth part of that sum, for a Jewish \
maiden; and Sophronia might well have feared that on her \
mistress making the discovery that her newly-purchased slave \
was only Grecian by the half-blood, she would immediately \
send her back to Calphurnius. The manner in which her con- \
fession was received, at least by one of the young ladies, scarcely \
tended to reassure her. \
\
\'93\'a2 A Jewess !\'94 exclaimed Marcia,in mingled amazement, indig- \
nation, and abhorrence. \'91That scoundrel Calphurnius! He \
ought to be made to refund the money immediately! Six hun- \
dred drachme for a Jewess! I should as soon think of giving \
it for a fly.\'94 . \
\
Camilla checked the exclamations which her sister was pour- \
ing out, by saying, \'91\'91 You will frighten the poor girl, dear Marcia, \
It is not her fault if she is unfortunately a Jewess, and I am sure \
she has shown great courage and honesty in confessing it.\'94 \
\
\'93 Not her fault !\'94 returned Marcia in the same tone as before. \
\'93Not that dog\'92s fault\'97down, Porpax!\'97that he is a dog! \
Camilla, I wonder to what absurdity you will give utterance \
\
\
CALPHURNIUS THE SLAVE-DEALER. 13 \
\
\
next ! I shall go and tell my mother immediately, and she will \
punish that wretch Calphurnius as he deserves, by sending the \
creature back to him.\'94 \
\
\'93No, Marcia, you will not when I beg you not to do so.\'94 \
\
\'93You do not mean to say that you will have such a creature \
as that to wait upon you? She shall not touch the hem of my \
palla, I promise you! But you always were a mean-spirited \
girl.\'94 \
\
\'93 You can please yourself, Marcia,\'94 said Camilla, a little roused \
by the compliment just paid her; \'93 but I certainly intend that \
she shall wait upon me, unless my mother command me to \
resign her.\'94 \
\
\'93 Faugh !\'94 said Marcia in disgust. \'91* Well, pray please your- \
self, Domina Camilla; I wish you joy of your Jewess! I only \
hope you will give her plenty of pork for supper, and make her \
sacrifice to Diana at the first opportunity, to air a few of her \
Israelitish prejudices; and pray forgive me for quitting your \
presence so long as you keep company with swine! \'94 \
\
And so saying, Marcia gathered her dress carefully round her, \
to avoid touching Sophronia, and passed out into the atrium. \
\
* Unhappy Sophronia!\'94 said Camilla softly. \'91I am very \
sorry that my sister should have spoken so unkindly to you. \
Sit down here at my feet, and tell me where you have been \
living since\'97 since you left Jerusalem.\'94 \
\
\'91Since the city was destroyed, the Domina would say,\'94 said \
Sophronia in a low plaintive voice, after she had seated herself \
on the ground according to the desire of her young mistress. \
** Ah, Domina, I scarcely know where. All the world over, I \
think. I have been handed about, with dozens of my country- \
women, from slave-dealer to slave-dealer, and wherever we were \
exposed for sale as Jewesses, \'91no man would buy us.\'92\'94 \
\
\'91And your parents? Were they with you?\'94 \
\
\'91My father was killed when the Romans entered the city, \
and my mother died of famine a short time before.\'94 \
\
\'91How dreadful! And had you any brothers and sisters?\'94 \
\
\'91Four brothers, who all died before or during the siege, \
and a sister who was sold into slavery like myself.\'94 \
\
** Do you know where?\'94 \
\
\
14 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEL, \
\
\
*\'93No, Domina, no more than I know what has become of \
the birds of last year.\'94 \
\
\'93Unhappy Sophronia !\'94 said Camilla again. \
\
The girl looked up as if about to speak, but dropped her \
eyes and remained silent when Aurelia at that moment drew \
aside the curtain. \
\
* Well, Camilla, what do you think of your new attendant ?\'94 \
\
\'93T like her extremely. Mother, will you grant me a favour?\'94 \
\
\'93* Certainly, child, if it be reasonable.\'94 \
\
\'93* Please to promise me that Sophronia shall be mine, if \
Marcia take a dislike to her.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'93Of course\'97I gave her to you. Marcia is always taking \
likes and dislikes. What is the matter now?\'94 \
\
**Sophronia has told us that she was not born in Greece, \
and that her mother was not a Grecian; and Marcia thinks \
that Calphurnius has cheated you, Mother.\'94 \
\
Aurelia laughed. \'91I am sure he has, if he could ; it is just \
like the old villain. However, it shows honesty in the girl. \
What was your mother, child, and where were you born P?\'94 \
\
*Q Mother !\'94 broke in Camilla hastily; \'91 please do not send \
her back! I like her so much.\'94 \
\
Aurelia, who was apparently in the best possible temper, \
patted the cheek of her daughter, and then returned to receive \
the answer of Sophronia, who stood with downcast eyes before \
her. \
\
\'91Domina, I was born in Jerusalem. My mother was a \
Jewess.\'94 \
\
Aurelia\'92s eyes flashed angrily ; but she met the earnest plead- \
ing glance of Camilla, and the fire died out of them. \
\
\'91Well, child,\'94 she said in a half-annoyed, half-gracious tone \
to the latter, \'93you can please yourself. The girl is fair and \
well-spoken, and seems honest, for her looks are Grecian, and \
she certainly could have no reason for telling the truth if she \
had thought fit to conceal it. I wished to please you by giving \
you a slave, and I should probably have to pay as much for \
any other; so, if this girl pleases you better than another, I \
do not object to your keeping her. [ will find some other \
way of paying off that rascal Calphurnius.\'94 \
\
\
CALPHURNIUS THE SLAVE-DEALER. 15 \
\
\
Oh thank you, dear Mother! thank you!\'94 said Camilla, \
with beaming eyes. \'91I should not like any other half so well. \
But Marcia 4 \
\
\'93Oh, I will get another for Marcia.\'94 \
\
\'93IT am so much obliged to you, dear Mother!\'94 repeated \
Camilla, while Sophronia timidly bent down and kissed Aurelia\'92s \
hand. \
\
\'91Well, be a good girl,\'94 said the latter to Sophronia ; \'93you \
know I might have sent you back, which would probably have \
earned you a whipping from your master; and I expect you to \
show your gratitude for my leniency, by increased diligence in \
the Domicella\'92s service. There, that will do; be honest and \
obedient, and the misfortune of your birth shall not be remem- \
bered against you.\'94 \
\
\
CHAPTER II. \
\
\
NEW IDEAS. \
\
\
\'91* Fisher of men, O Lamb, all-bless\'a2d One! \
From the foul pit of sin Thou winnest us \
By Thy sweet love.\'94 \
\
\
\'97Translation of an ancient Greek Hymn. \
\
EFORE Sophronia had been many days in her new \
\
position, Camilla perceived that the numerous slaves \
\
in her father\'92s extensive household had taken as \
\
great a dislike to the new-comer as had been exhi- \
bited by Marcia. The latter, who rejoiced in a new sub- \
ject for conversation, had at once informed those slaves who \
served at her toilet that Sophronia was more Jewish than \
Grecian, and they were not slow in spreading the interesting \
news. Sophronia, on her part, kept as much aloof from them \
as possible. She worked in the ante-chamber into which Ca- \
milla\'92s bedroom opened, and at any part of the day except the \
slaves\'92 meal times, when her young mistress might require her, \
she was certain of finding her in that quiet chamber. Soph- \
ronia herself never uttered a word concerning the ill-treatment \
which she experienced from the other servants, and it was only \
by her persistent seclusion, and by Camilla having once or \
twice caught some of the others in the act of branding Soph- \
ronia with such epithets as \'93 Jewish dog,\'94 \'93 Eastern barbarian,\'94 \
and \'93sucking-pig,\'94 that the mistress could form any idea of \
the petty persecution which the \'91slave-girl experienced at the \
hands of her comrades. To the great distress of her sister, \
Marcia joined in the evil-speaking as much as any one. \
\
\
NEW IDEAS. 17 \
\
\
Camilla had several times endeavoured to obtain from the \
slave-girl some further information regarding her parents and her \
early years, but Sophronia quietly, though respectfully, evaded \
her questions. Aurelia also tried to induce her to speak on \
these subjects, but in vain; and Camilla, concluding from this \
that the girl was unwilling to speak of her past life, forbore to \
question her any further. The reticence of Sophronia, never- \
theless, did not lessen the curiosity of her young mistress to \
ascertain something concerning Jewish manners, and especially \
the Jewish religion. Camilla was entirely ignorant respecting \
the latter, having merely heard it spoken of as the \'93superstition \'94 \
of these despised tributaries of the Roman Empire, and having \
understood that Jews were invincibly attached to their own faith, \
did not sacrifice to the Roman gods, and deemed it unlawful to \
eat pork. The number and nature of the gods whom the Jews \
worshipped\'97for the idea of a monotheistic religion never \
occurred to her\'97she specially desired to know; the quality of \
their sacrifices, the nature of their doctrines, and, above all, the \
success or failure of their prayers. On this latter subject Ca- \
milla\'92s mind was frequently employed. Sophronia never uttered \
a word on such matters; and Camilla perceived that she must \
open the question herself. She occupied herself for some days \
In consideration of how this might best be done. \
\
On one of these days, Camilla was busy at work in the ala, \
Sophronia attending on her, when one of the other servants ran \
in hurriedly to inquire if the latter might be permitted to come \
to the side-door of the house, which opened on a narrow street, \
to speak to a stranger who had rung the bell, and whose language \
none of the rest couldcomprehend. They fancied that he must \
be a Greek; might Sophronia speak to him and see? Camilla \
assented, and as only a curtain separated the room in which she \
sat from the passage which led to the side door, she drew aside \
the curtain, and glanced at the stranger. Hewasa young man \
in worn and travel-stained costume and of a foreign appearance. \
When Sophronia reached the door, Camilla noticed that she \
greeted the stranger with \'93Xaize!\'94\'97a word the meaning of \
which the Roman lady well knew, from the circumstance of its \
\
\
being occasionally carved over the doors of the Roman houses. \
B \
\
\
is THE SLAVE. GIRL OF POMPE, \
\
\
The stranger returned the salutation, and for a few minutes the \
two conversed in a strange language which Camilla supposed to- \
be Greek. Then Sophronia, returning to her mistress, informed \
her that the stranger was a poor Greek, who had been ship- \
wrecked, and, having lost all his property, was endeavouring to \
beg his way back to hisown country. Camilla desired Sophronia \
to give him a piece of money; the stranger took it, and appar- \
ently thanked her; but just before he turned to depart, he looked \
earnestly in the slave-girl\'92s face, and murmured the word \
\'93Ty due!\'94 The face of Sophronia lighted up as with a sunbeam, \
and she joyfully re-echoed the wordtwice. \'91The Greek clasped \
her hand warmly, and with a parting salutation in his own \
tongue, went on his way. \
\
Over this incident Camilla pondered long. What could be \
the meaning of that magic word? Shortly after this, a lady called \
upon Aurelia one morning whom Camilla knew to be a Greek \
scholar, and she took advantage of her visit to ask her the \
signification of the word /x\'e9u:. \'91A fish, Camilla,\'94 was the \
simple answer ; and Camilla was more puzzled than ever. \'93A \
fish !\'94 what was there in the mere word \'93fish\'94 to call up such \
a joyous expression on the countenances of the two Greeks? \
That afternoon, as Camilla was embroidering in the ante- \
chamber with Sophronia, she suddenly asked her, \
\
\'91What did you mean, Sophronia, by saying \'91\'92Idus\'92 to that \
Greek? It merely means a fish, does it not?\'94 \
\
Sophronia\'92s face and neck, usually so pale, flushed scarlet. \
\'93Ves, Domina, it means a fish,\'94 she answered in a slightly \
tremulous tone. \
\
\'93 But jou meant something more than that, Sophronia ? \'94 \
\
Sophronia hurriedly rose, and turned to pick up Camilla\'92s \
scissors, which had dropped. \'93It is\'97it is only a\'97a word we \
use\'97among ourselves,\'94 she said with much embarrassment. \
\
Camilla\'92s curiosity was more tantalised than before. \'91\'93 Among \
yourselves ?\'94 she repeated. \
\
Sophronia came and knelt down at her feet. \'91 Domina\'97\'94 \
\
\'93(So on, Sophronia.\'94 \
\
\'93Will the Domina graciously question me no further con- \
cerning that word ?\'94 \
\
\
NEW IDEAS. 19- \
\
\
Camilla hesitated. \'91I do not wish to distress you,\'94 she said \
kindly ; \'93but I am very curious to know its meaning.\'94 \
\
Sophronia covered her face with her hands, and remained \
silent for a minute. When she looked up she was very pale, \
and an unusually anxious expression filled her eyes. \
\
\'91Will the Domina not betray me ?\'94 \
\
\'91Betray you, Sophronia? Certainly not!\'94 \
\
\'93The Domina will speak no word of what I say?\'94 \
\
\'91Shall I swear it by Diana?\'94 asked Camilla, amused at \
what she supposed to be the unnecessary punctiliousness of \
the slave-girl with respect to some worthless secret. \
\
\'91\'91 By no means, sweet Domina!\'94 replied Sophronia, with a \
shocked and frightened air. \'91A word is sufficient.\'94 \
\
\'93 Be it so\'97I will not reveal your secret. Speak!\'94 \
\
But just as Sophronia seemed about to speak, Marcia entered \
the room. The slave rose hurriedly, and relapsed into her \
customary reticence. \
\
Marcia seated herself upon a chair, and appeared inclined to \
remain for some time. Her conversation was not very enter- \
taining, for she merely asked how Camilla found her new style \
of embroidery to wear, remarked that it was extremely hot, and \
wished that her own palla had been a darker orange. Camilla \
responded satisfactorily to her questions and observations, \
though she heartily wished her out of the room ; but Marcia sat \
on, playing with her bracelets, and occasionally making very \
vapid remarks. Sophronia had taken up her work, and her lips \
appeared sealed. About half an hour had passed in this manner, \
when Aurelia\'92s step was heard coming up the stairs. Camilla \
devoutly hoped that she would take Marcia away with her. \
\
\'91Both here?\'94 said Aurelia, reclining on the couch. \'91 Soph- \
ronia, go down stairs, and ask Libia for my tablets and stylus ; \
I have left them somewhere. Tell her to look for them in \
the ecus.\'94 \
\
Sophronia quitted the room to obey the behest of her mistress ; \
and Aurelia, yawning, added, \'93The Dominus talks of giving a \
banquet, daughters.\'94 \
\
\'91When, Mother?\'94 said Marcia, brightening up. \
\
\'93To-morrow. You will have to sup by yourselves in the ala.\'94 \
\
\
20 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
* How provoking it is that we cannot be there!\'94 said Marcia, \
pouting. \
\
\'93Very much better for young girls like you,\'94 replied Aurelia. \
\
\'93But we may look through the curtain and see the guests \
arrive ?\'94 resumed Marcia. \
\
\'93 You may,\'94 said Camilla parenthetically. \
\
\'93Yes, if you don\'92t show yourselves,\'94 said Aurelia; \'93though \
I do not see much amusement in looking at a number of men \
wrapped up in pallize.\'94 \
\
\'91Who is to be there?\'94 \
\
\'91Oh dear, everybody\'97at least, nearly everybody of the least \
consequence in Pompeii: and a friend of the Dominus from \
Rome, Lucius Cornelius Strophius\'97a very clever man, they \
say, and an author.\'94 \
\
\'91OQ Mother, I wish we might be there !\'94 again sighed Marcia. \
\
* You may think yourselves lucky that you are not. I expect \
I shall have a weary evening of it. When gentlemen drink a \
great deal of Falernian wine, they are not fit company for girls.\'94 \
\
\'91Who is to wait on us, Mother? May we have the dishes as \
they come out from the triclinium?\'94 \
\
\'91We shall sup in the ecus. Yes, you may have the dishes \
(not thrushes, of course); but don\'92t make yourselves ill. Lucipor \
shall hand them in as they come from the ecus, and Flora and \
Sophronia had better attend on you.\'94 \
\
\'93Dear me, Mother!\'94 said Marcia, not in a very good-tem- \
pered tone, \'91why may not girls eat thrushes, I should like to \
know? I want to taste them above all things.\'94 \
\
\'93You know it is never allowed you,\'94 answered Aurelia. \
\'91\'93\'91 Hark ! what is that ?\'94 she exclaimed the next instant, spring- \
ing to her feet with a white and terrified face. \
\
A low rumbling sound, like distant thunder, which seemed to \
come from underground ; doors slamming, objects falling, every- \
thing in the room violently shaken :\'97this was what caused \
Aurelia\'92s exclamation. \
\
\'93An earthquake?\'94 whispered the two girls, who were even \
more terrified than their mother. \
\
\'93 The gods protect us!\'94 said Aurelia. \'93Is it over?\'94 \
\
It was over. They heard the voices of the slaves downstairs, \
\
\
NEW IDEAS. 21 \
\
\
screaming in terror; but in a few minutes all was calm again, \
and Aurelia re-seated herself. \
\
\'93The gods grant it may not come again:\'94 said she. \'91\'91 Ah \
girls, I remember a far more terrible earthquake than this,\'97 \
fifteen,\'97no! sixteen years ago, when you were little children. \
I can tell you we thought the world was returning to chaos. \
Numbers of houses fell in the city, and many persons were \
killed. Some of the statues in the atrium were completely split \
asunder, and a great marble table which stood in the peristyle \
was tossed from one side to the other as if it had been a chip \
of wood. I never was so frightened in all my life. Don\'92t you \
remember the pavement in the atrium of our neighbour, Domina \
Cornelia Vipsania? Well, the twistings of the pattern were oc \
casioned by that earthquake. It positively made holes in the \
floor. Why, Sophronia, where were you just now? Have you \
not been terribly frightened ?\'94 \
\
Sophronia entered the room with her mistress\'92s tablets in her \
hand, as Aurelia concluded her speech. \
\
\'93TI was startled, Domina, for I was not expecting an earth- \
quake.\'94 \
\
\'93Was it you whom we heard scream ?\'94 \
\
\'93No, Domina, I did not scream.\'94 \
\
\'93Who did, then?\'94 \
\
\'93\'91Libia and Ccenis both screamed, I think\'97they were very \
much terrified.\'94 \
\
\'91And so were you, of course!\'94 said Marcia contemptuously. \
\
The slave made no answer, but her colour brightened a \
little. \
\
\'93Well, girls,\'94 said Aurelia, rising, \'91I must leave you now. I[ \
wonder where Ccenis is.\'97Ccenis!\'94 And Aurelia descended the \
stairs, clapping her hands for the slave. \
\
\'93\'91 Mother !\'94 said Marcia in a raised voice, \'93 may I not come \
with you?\'94 \
\
\'93Please yourself!\'94 said Aurelia in reply. And Marcia \
hastily followed her. \
\
Camilla was very anxious to renew the conversation with \
Sophronia which had been interrupted by the arrival of Marcia. \
But Sophronia herself appeared very much averse to its re\'e9 \
\
\
22 THE SLAVE GIRL. OF POMPED. \
\
\
sumption. She went into the bedroom. ran down-stairs again \
as if to fetch something, and wandered nervously about, as if \
in dread of her young mistress\'92s voice. At length Camilla \
arrested her by desiring her to unpick a piece of embroidery in \
which she found she had made some false stitches. The slave \
took the embroidery and seated herself, while Camilla went on \
with her own work. The latter opened the conversation by \
asking a question not very remote from the previous subject\'97 \
perhaps less so than she herself was aware. \
\
** Sophronia m \
\
The girl coloured, but did not look up. \
\
\'93Sophronia, do your gods hear people when they pray to \
them?\'94 \
\
The girl\'92s colour came and went hastily ; her breast heaved \
almost painfully, and nearly two minutes elapsed before she \
could summon courage to reply, \'91\'91 Domina, the Lord, the God \
of Israel, is one Lord.\'94 \
\
\'93What! have you only one God?\'94 inquired Camilla with \
equal interest and surprise. The Roman girl was accustomed \
to the idea of a Pantheon, and at first her mind could scarcely \
grasp that of monotheism. \
\
\'93One,\'94 answered Sophronia shortly. \
\
\'93How very strange !\'94 said Camilla slowly and thoughtfully. \
** Why then, of course it is impossible that He should hear prayer. \
He could not possibly have time and leisure to do so.\'94 \
\
It was now Sophronia\'92s turn to look astonished. \'91\'91 Domina!\'94 \
she said. \
\
\'93 Well, what is it, Sophronia?\'94 \
\
\'93Ah, Domina, bear with me! What idea have you of God? \
Think you that He is as man, that you speak of time\'97He, the \
Eternal? Your gods are silver and gold, the work of men\'92s \
hands, which can neither see; nor hear, nor speak. But as for \
our God, He is in Heaven, and the idols He shall utterly abolish; \
in that day when men shall go into the caves, and into the \
clefts of the rocks, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His \
majesty, when \'91He ariseth to shake terribly the earth.\'94 \
\
She paused, breathless with her own earnestness. Camilla \
sat looking at her in surprise. So many new ideas had never \
\
\
NEW IDEAS. 23 \
\
\
~ \
\
\
been crowded into her head before. They were so many, that \
for the present she let all drop but the last, and said, \
\
\'93And when will that day be, Sophronia?\'94 \
\
\'93Domina, of that day the angels in Heaven know not. But \
soon,\'97soon, very soon.\'94 \'91The girl lifted up her head to the \
skies, and her eyes glowed with enthusiasm. \'91Soon, soon, O \
Messiah ! wilt Thou come to the rescue of Israel. Is not this \
the time of Jacob\'92s trouble? Is it not Thine to save him out \
of it? Oh tarry no longer on Thine azure throne! Rend the \
heavens and come down, mighty to save, strong to deliver, the \
Holy One of Israel, the Long-E-xpected, the Glorious !\'94 \
\
\'93Messiah!\'94 repeated Camilla. \'91Who is that, Sophronia?\'94 \
\
\'93The.Son of the Blessed,\'94 answered the Jewish maiden, for- \
getting for the moment that the words in question would present \
a very different meaning to a Roman ear from that which they \
conveyed to her own. \'91lhe response of Camilla reminded \
her of it. \
\
\'93*The Son of the Blessed!\'92 Of your God, you mean? I \
am disappointed, then,\'94 said Camilla in an annoyed tone. \'93I \
hoped that your God might have been better than ours. But \
if He have sons who are mortals, it would seem that He is not.\'94 \
\
\'91The Domina understands not,\'94 answered Sophronia, in her \
low clear voice. \'91\'91 \'91lhe light shineth in darkness, and the dark- \
ness comprehendeth it not.\'92 Your gods, if they were gods who \
are none, are men of like passions with yourselves ; they fight, \
they steal, they lie, they sin sins whereof the very names should \
not be named. But our God is the Just One and the Holy, in \
whose eyes the heavens are unclean, and in whose sight the \
thought of iniquity is an abhorrence. When I speak of the \
Messiah as the Son of the Blessed, the Domina supposes me to \
mean that He is a mere mortal, subject unto sin, like all men \
else. Be it far from me! He is God, one with the Father, \
equal to the Father, eternal as the Father.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T can scarcely understand you, Sophronia. Your very \
words are strange words to my ear. What do you mean by \
speaking of Messiah, if that be His name, as equal to and co- \
eternal with His Father? Besides, you tell me you have only one \
God; and now you speak of two. I cannot comprehend it !\'94 \
\
\
24 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93*Who can comprehend God but God ?\'94 suggestively replied \
Sophronia. \
\
Camilla sat in silence for a few minutes. A holy. eternal, \
incomprehensible God, was a Being the very idea of whom was \
completely new to her. \
\
\'93Sophronia !\'94 she said at length, \'93this is a grander God than \
any of ours! I never yet heard of such a God as this. Still, \
make it plain to me, if you can, how the Son can be equal to \
and eternal as the Father, and yet the two form (as you say) \
but one God ?\'94 \
\
\'91Will the Domina like to hear a long story, and I will speak.? \
Shall I tell how I myself came to know this in my soul ?\'94 \
\
\'93There is nothing which would so much interest me, \
Sophronia.\'94 \
\
Sophronia cut off her thread, folded up her work, and sat \
down on a low stvol at Camilla\'92s feet. \
\
\'93A moment,\'94 said the latter, \'93before you begin. What \
was the meaning of that \'91\'92Iy\'e95;\'92? Has that anything to do \
with your religion ?\'94 \
\
\'93Tt is a word,\'94 answered Sophronia, quite calmly now, \'93 which \
we use among ourselves, and by which we recognise the breth- \
ren, the letters whereof indicate the name of Messiah.\'94 \
\
\'91* How so?\'94 \
\
The slave bowed her head reverently as she answered, \
\
\'91Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Saviour.\'94 \
\
\
ER UES \
\
\
CHAPTER III. \
\
\
SOPHRONIA TELLS HER STORY. \
\
\
** His bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.""\'972 Cor, x. 10. \
\
\
Dy sF Sophronia had hoped that her skilful introduction \
rE EW would propitiate her young mistress, and cause her \
\
= @| to pass over the point which was likely to startle \
we=<" her, she found herself mistaken. No sooner had \
she uttered the name of the Saviour, than Camilla recoiled \
from her with a shocked and contemptuous expression of \
countenance. \
\
\'93Christ!\'94 she said, instantly fixing upon the obnoxious \
name. \'93Are you then one of that superstitious sect called \
Christians? I have heard of them\'97what foolish and wicked \
people they are, and that they actually eat little children at their \
\'91love-feasts,\'92 as they call them, and drink blood! Sophronia, \
I am amazed! I really had hoped better things of you.\'94 \
\
Sophronia sat still, her colour merely rising as Camilla spoke. \
\
\'91Will the Domina be pleased,\'94 she quietly answered, \'93to \
hear calmly the words of her slave, and to strike after? What \
the Domina has been told of us is foul slander, as by her \
leave I will show.\'94 \
\
\'a2 Well!\'94 said Camilla, slightly appeased by Sophronia\'92s words \
and manner, \'93I only know that my father told me what I \
have repeated to you; and he said that he had overheard \
one Christian in the amphitheatre at Rome speak to another \
concerning \'91the last time when they ate together the flesh and \
\
\
blood.\'92 \'94 \
\
\
26 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEL!. \
\
\
\'91*The Dominus doubtless took literally words which we use \
as a figure.\'94 \
\
\'91Perhaps that might be,\'94 admitted Camilla rather reluctantly, \
\'93Well, go on, Sophronia,\'97 let me hear your story.\'94 \
\
The girl clasped her arms round her knees, fixed her eyes \
on a garland painted on the wall, and spoke as follows\'97at \
first slowly, her tone becoming quicker and more animated as \
she proceeded. \
\
*\'91] have been told, Domina, that I look younger than I am. \
Of that you will judge for yourself; I have lived twenty-seven \
years.\'94 \
\
\'91* Why, you are six years older than Iam!\'94 exclaimed Camilla. \
**T thought you were only about the same age as myself.\'94 \
\
\'93Thirty-two years ago,\'94 resumed Sophronia, taking no notice \
of Camilla\'92s exclamation, \'93\'91my parents were married at Jeru- \
salem. My father was a Greek, a proselyte to the faith of Israel, \
who had come up to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover ; \
my mother was a Jewess dwelling in the Holy City. At the \
time of their marriage they were both ignorant of the faith, for \
since the departure of the Lord it was then barely fourteen \
years. My mother had heard in her childhood of Him, as \
a great Prophet whom many reverenced, and who had healed \
many sick, and dispossessed the vexed with devils; but she \
had never seen Him, and none of His wonderful works had \
been performed for any of her kinsfolk or acquaintance. \'91The \
disciples of the Lord, whom He left behind, charging them to \
preach the words of this life which He had come to make \
known to men, were going up and down the Land of Israel, \
but they had never come near our dwelling. My father and \
mother had two sons before I was born; but they died infants, \
and I never knew them. I was their third child, and my sister \
Irene the fourth: I remember\'97it must be nearly fourteen \
years ago\'97that my father took a journey to Greece on account \
of some family property\'97for he was a man of some little \
wealth\'97leaving my mother and her children in Jerusalem. It \
was late in the spring when he returned, though we had ex- \
pected him in the beginning of winter. He told us that he \
had not spent all that time in his own country, for he had found \
\
\
COO TLLE Life gly GRA WEP \'a9 \
\
\
Lawn \
\
\
ia ba abe RE SD panting \
\
\
iia) batioe sce 1 Elev \
\
\
ot Maa: \
\
\
Cara? ilegey PIB, Catia \'bb \
\
\
aadle in hand, and face red from the fire, entered the master-couk, \'97 faye 38. \
\
\
28 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPETI. \
\
\
it necessary to go on to Rome. And at Rome he fell in with \
something which changed the whole tenor and purpose of his \
life. A man whom he knew, a Jew, who dwelt in Jerusalem, \
found himself (by the Lord\'92s provision) in Rome at the same \
time as my father. Meeting one day in the capital, the son \
of Ananus\'97for thus he was called\'97asked my father among \
other converse if he had heard of the prisoner of Czesar who \
was preaching at that time. He conjured my father to go and \
hear the man; and he, having to await the conclusion of his \
business, was readily persuaded to while away some of his \
unoccupied time in visiting the prisoner, who was not confined \
in the Imperial dungeon, but by the clemency of the authorities \
was suffered to dwell in a hired house with his keeper. \
\
My father found the prisoner\'92s chamber filled with Jews and \
Romans who were anxious to see the man, and to hear the strange \
things which he said. Hehad even some difficulty in making his \
entrance; but Simeon, the son of Ananus, who was acquainted \
with several persons in the room, succeeded in inducing them \
to make way for him. \
\
\'93The name of the prisoner was Paulus. He was a Jew by \
parentage, yet a Roman citizen by birth, for which cause he had \
appealed to Cesar on being accused by some turbulent men that \
dwelt in Jerusalem of I know not rightly what fault. \'93The man \
was small of stature, scarcely reaching the common height of a \
woman. His head was partly bald, his nose high, his complexion \
fair, his beard long and narrow; but his eyes, which were ex- \
tremely clear and brilliant, had in them a sweet serenity which \
touched the heart of my father. This Paulus, being entreated \
by such as were present, began to speak. At first my father was \
sorely disappointed in the man; his voice was slender and weak, \
his words common, and he hesitated much in his speech; but \
as he proceeded, and his heart became warmed with the thoughts \
of those blessed things whereof he spake, his speech changed, \
becoming quick and fluent, and was indeed pleasant to the ear.\'94 \
\
Sophronia paused a moment, and rested her head upon her \
hand, as if she were weary. \
\
\
\'91*Go on, Sophronia,\'94 said Camilla. \'93I am extremely inter- \
ested. What did Paulus say?\'94 \
\
\
SOPHRONIA TELLS HER STORY. 29 \
\
\
\'93How much ought I to repeat?\'94 answered Sophronia thought- \
fully. \'91It is not common among us Christians to speak to those \
who are not such of the higher mysteries of our faith. And yet \
how else can I speak of the Lord to those who are in ignorance \
of Him? For is not He Himself the highest and the deepest \
mystery of all?\'94 \
\
\'93T desire that you would explain yourself a little more, Soph- \
ronia, for already you have said many things which puzzle me.\'94 \
\
*T will try, yet the task is not an easy one. Let the Domina \
speak, if it be her pleasure.\'94 \
\
\'93 Well\'97first, by \'91the Lord,\'92 I suppose you mean Christ ?\'94 \
\
\'93Certainly. There is none other.\'94 \
\
\'91What, then, do you intend when you say \'91His departure\'92? \
I thought that our authorities had put Him to death as an \
impostor, and a rebel against Ceesar.\'94 \
\
\'91So did the Father, in infinite wisdom and love, permit Him \
to suffer; that He might by His death make propitiation for the \
sins of His own.\'94 \
\
* Yours is a strange religion, Sophronia! I never heard of one \
to equal it. Your conceptions of God, as God, seem to me the \
grandest ideas that were ever presented to me. And yet, that \
you should suppose this God\'97so grand, so powerful, so glorious \
as you picture Him\'97to be capable of death, the same death that \
ordinary men suffer\'97nay, that He should permit Himself to be \
treated as a malefactor\'97it is preposterous beyond everything ! \
I cannot understand it.\'94 \
\
\'93Let it please the Domina to remember that I have already \
told her that God cannot be understood by man. She is weighing \
the truths of the faith in the balances of reason, and the balance \
is too weak to bear the weight. Moreover, she spoke a moment \
ago of my conceptions of God. Nay, for it is the Law of the \
Holy One, and the teaching of Messiah, which have revealed \
Him unto us\'97not any conception which we, poor, weak, erring \
mortals that we are, could have formed of Him. But I am \
wandering from my story. Shall I go on?\'94 \
\
\'91 By all means,\'94 answered Camilla; and the girl proceeded. \
\
\'93The words of Paulus were strange words to my father, as \
my words were of late to the Domina.\'94 Sophronia very rarely \
\
\
30 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPETI.* \
\
\
smiled,\'97as did she now; but whenever a smile did break into \
the usual gravity of her countenance, it lighted it up like a \
sunbeam. \'91These words,\'94 she proceeded, \'93were not of such \
things as my father had heard aforetime. He had, indeed, much \
the advantage of the Domina, for he was already a worshipper \
of the Blessed One according to the Law. Heknew, therefore \
\'97so far as an unholy man can know it\'97the eternity, the \
unchangeableness, the justice, the holiness, the purity, of God. \
But of the love and mercy of God, as it was unfolded to him by \
the words of Paulus, he knew indeed little. It is true, the cere- \
monies and sacrifices commanded by the Law did all point to \
Messiah and His greater sacrifice of Himself; but the faith of \
the nation was under a cloud, and there were few indeed who \
thought on these things. Most men contented themselves by \
performing the outward ceremony, without giving any heed to the \
inward signification; and our priests, with very few exceptions, \
were then evil and covetous men, who performed the sacrifices for \
the temporal benefits which they brought to themselves\'97for the \
priest always had a part of the sacrifice by command of the Law \
\'97and never troubled themselves to instruct the worshippers \
concerning the true inward and spiritual meaning thereof. \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Up to that period, therefore, my father, like others of our \
faith, had trusted to the actual outward sacrifices which he \
performed to take away his sins.\'97Let the Domina speak.\'94 \
\
Camilla had made a motion as if to doso; and on Sophronia\'92s \
silence, she said, with a puzzled look,\'97 \
\
. \'93Sins! Was your father, then, a very wicked man ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91 He was, by the grace of the Lord, so far as man can be, Just \
and righteous as regarded his social duties and his fellow men.\'94 \
\
\'93Then what can you mean by speaking of him as you would \
of a malefactor ?\'94 \
\
\'91May it please the Domina to say what she understands sins \
to be.\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, all sorts of evil deeds\'97murder, theft, rapine, cruelty, \
and injustice.\'94 \
\
\'93These are indeed sins, and heavy ones: but in the sight \
of God the Holy One, all men, in all thoughts, and words, and \
actions whatsoever they be, are always sinning sins.\'94 \
\
\
SOPHRONIA TELLS HER STORY. 31 \
\
\
\'93Sophronia! Sophronia! You surely would not ask me to \
believe that ?\'94 cried Camilla incredulously, and almost laugh- \
ing. \'91\'91 You are not sinning at this moment, nor am [!\'94 \
\
\'91So it seems to the Domina, because she looks on herself \
with the eyes of a sinful mortal, not with the pure eyes of the \
Holy One. Can weso much as imagine what He sees in us ?\'94 \
\
Camilla gave a little shrug of her shoulders, and said,\'97 \
\'93Well |\'97go on.\'94 \
\
After a moment\'92s pause Sophronia proceeded \
\
\'93 Before I go on to relate what Paulus spoke, perhaps I had \
better say a few words concerning the man himself. He was \
not one of the disciples who had followed the Lord during the \
time of His humiliation, for during some years he had been a \
violent persecutor of all who were of the truth: but during a \
journey which he took to Damascus, a town many stadia to the \
north of Jerusalem, the Lord intercepted him by a voice from \
\
Heaven, forbidding him to turn his hand against the brethren. \
On arriving in Iamascus, the man joined himself to us, and \
became ere long one of the very chiefest apostles of the Lord, \
being assured by the blessing of the Lord upon his works that \
he was chosen and faithful. \
\
\'93 And now the Domina must know, that the coming of Messiah \
to earth was no strange thing to Israel. All our prophets, from \
the Lawgiver downward, have testified of Him. But the House \
of Israel took ill heed to it, and misunderstood the words of the \
prophets ; mixing together the words which told of His past \
coming, to atone for the sin of His people and to bring in ever- \
lasting righteousness, and that yet future manifestation of \
Messiah, when He shall come to reign as King of Israel, and \
to shake terribly the earth. Therefore they expected Him not \
as Hecame. \'91They looked for a Prince great and mighty, who \
should deliver Jacob from them that oppressed him, for a con. \
queror who should tread down the enemy, and should win to \
Himself the throne of David, to reign thereon for evermore. \
Thus will Messiah come hereafter. But now, He came\'97and \
they looked not for Him\'97a poor man and a lowly, to sutfer and \
make atonement for the sins of the world. He came, the king, \
and they knew Him not. He laid aside His robes of state, and \
\
\
32 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
came down to the earth which He created. a weak, helpless, little \
child; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and they hid \
their faces from Him. \'91They despised Him in His low estate, \'97 \
Him, who when He shall return will come with the clouds of \
heaven, a Judge, a Conqueror, and a King. \
\
\'93\'91 This it was whereof Paulus spake to them who were gathered \
around him. He showed them that by numberless sins, ever \
since they were born, had they insulted the Majesty of the \
Holiest: and that the blood of bulls and the fat of rams, offered \
in sacrifice day by day on the altar at Jerusalem, could never of \
themselves atone forsin. \'91These, therefore, must point to some \
better sacrifice, even that of the Messiah Himself, who, by His \
own sacrifice of Himself upon the cross, once offered, had made \
expiation for all the sins of His people, and had brought in for \
them an everlasting righteousness. While yet here in His low \
estate, He humbled Himself that He might exalt them; He \
became poor, that He might enrich them ; He loved us who lay \
in the pit of corruption, as He sat upon His glorious throne, and \
came down to earth to die for us miserable sinners, that our \
penalty being paid by His blood, and we accounted righteous \
before God on account of His righteousness, we might mount \
up even into Heaven before the throne of God the Holy One, \
and be found blameless in the presence of His glory. Our Lord\'92s \
humiliation is over now. No more shall He know poverty and \
pain and hunger, insolence and scorn, the anguish and the shame \
of the cross. Now on the right hand of the throne of God He \
sitteth\'97a King unto all the ages, a Priest for ever\'97and He shall \
ere long return in the clouds, and all His angels with Him, to \
judge all the living and the dead, and to justify them who have \
ventured their souls upon the word of His love. For is it not \
written, \'91 The eyes of the Lord run to and fro through the whole \
earth, to show Himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart \
is perfect towards Him?\'92 \
\
\'93\'91T know not if I have done well to speak thus openly. It is \
not the custom, asI said. From very few Christians would the \
Domina have obtained so full an answer. But at least I have \
done her bidding. And ifin any wise I have erred, may the Lord \
be pleased to forgive me!\'94 \
\
\
SOPHRONIA TELLS HER STORY. 33 \
\
\
Long before Sophronia\'92s narrative was ended, Camilla had laid \
down her embroidery, and was listening with absorbed attention. \
As soon as the slave ceased speaking, her young mistress hastily \
rejoined, \'97\'91\'93\'91 Then, Sophronia, your God does hear prayer ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Are they not the words of the very Christ, \'97\'91 Whatsoever ye \
shall ask the Father in My name, He shall give it you?\'92\'94 \
\
\'91But I am not one of the \'91 you,\'92\'94 said Camilla pensively, \
\
\'93What hinders that the Domina should become so?\'94 \
\
\'93OQ but I could never think of becoming a Christian!\'94 \
hurriedly responded the Roman maiden. \'93I could not endure to \
be pointed out and scoffed at as one of that despised sect. No, \
no, Sophronia! I may believe and muse on what you tell me, \
but it must be in the silence of my chamber. Beside, it would \
break the hearts of my parents were I to profess Christianity.\'94 \
\
A very, very sad expression overshadowed the pale wan face of \
Sophronia. \'91\'93 Ah, Domina! then are fulfilled the words of the \
Lord, \'91He that loveth father or mother more than Me, is not \
worthy of Me!\'92 and \'91he that taketh not up his cross, and \
followeth Me, cannot be My disciple.\'92 \'94 \
\
Camilla shook her head, but did not speak. \
\
\'91The Domina knoweth not yet the love of the Lord Christ !\'94 \
added Sophronia as mournfully as before. \'91She knoweth not \
what it is to love Him above riches, above ease, above safety, \
yea, even above life itself.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91 How is it possible to love an unknown person?\'94 replied \
Camilla, gravely. \
\
\'93 Unloved, decavse unknown,\'94 answered Sophronia. \'93 His \
love to us must ever precede and be the cause of ours to \
Fim.\'94 \
\
\'93He knows nothing about me,\'94 answered Camilla. \
\
* Let the Domina pardon her slave! Did He not know her, \
did He not care for her, before the world was? Hath not His \
hand made allthings? Is He not even now, in the unutterable \
fulness of His almighty love, waiting to hear her voice call upon \
His name? Did He create her, did He die for her, that when \
she should turn and spread forth her hands to Him, He should \
make answer and say unto her, \'91I know thee not\'92 ?\'94 \
\
\'91Sophronia, do yew love this Christ ?\'94 \
\
\
GO \
\
\
34 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
A soft pink colour rose to cheek and brow, and the girl\'92s eyes \
filled and ran over. \
\
\'93Would I not die for him at any instant? Shall it be thought \
a hard thing that I, a despised slave, should give my life for Him \
who, being the Prince of the whole world, yet gave His life for \
mer\'94 \
\
\'93 T am afraid you are an enthusiast, Sophronia!\'94 said Camilla, \
half laughing\'97yet she was touched by the enthusiasm. \
\
- \'93So the world calls us,\'94 replied Sophronia quietly, \'91\'93En- \
thusiasts, superstitious, fools, and many harsher names. The \
world loved not the Master, and how should it love them of the \
household? We can bear it,\'97we can wait patiently and in \
prayer, until the Lord comes in the glory of His majesty, and \
we shall see who will be the fools then.\'94 \
\
\'93If you really can believe that He will so come, it is no wonder \
you should think so,\'94 remarked Camilla. \'91\'93 But how can you \
have any certainty of it?\'94 \
\
\'93He hath promised,\'94 was the calm answer. \
\
\'91*But how do you know that He did not deceive you?\'94 \
\
\'91Will the father deceive his children, or the master his servants, \
when he saith, \'91Look for my coming home to-night ?\'92\'94 \
\
\'91 But might He not be deceived Himself?\'94 \
\
\'91*Who shall deceive God ?\'94 \
\
\'91How do you know that Christ is God ?\'94 \
\
\'93Did not all the prophets even from Abraham our father \
prophesy of the Coming One? Did they not foretell that He \
should suffer and be rejected, and should afterward come again \
with great glory to the judgment ?\'94 \
\
\'93 But you cannot prove, if this be so, that this Man called \
Christ was the One of whom they spake.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93 Domina, can you prove that the man called the Dominus \
Cneius Paratus Agricola was your father ?\'94 \
\
\'93Of course!\'94 said Camilla, opening her eyes. \'93JI can find \
many who would testify to it.\'94 \
\
\'93 But they may have deceived you.\'94 \
\
\'93Would my parents themselves deceive me on such a \
q iestion ?\'94 \
\
\'93They may have done so.\'94 \
\
\
SOPHRONIA TELLS HER STORY. 35 \
\
\
\'91But he loves me with such a love as comes only from a \
father, and not a stranger.\'94 \
\
Sophronia smiled a triumphant smile. \
\
Ah! the Domina has found the solution! And shall Christ \
love less or more unworthily than he? Because He hath loved \
us, because we know that He hath saved us, thereby we know \
Him to be the Saviour, the Messiah.\'94 \
\
\'93 But,\'94 resumed Camilla, as if determined to have the last \
word, \'93\'91 Aow do you know that you are saved by Him ?\'94 \
\
\'91The Domina now approaches the mysteries of the faith, \
which cannot be revealed to them that are without. Yet not to \
leave so important a question without an answer, let the Domina \
suffer me to say,\'97 How does she know that she is beloved of her \
father ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\\Why, because of his constant kindness and care of me, \
and because\'97because I feel in my heart that it is so.\'94 \
\
\'91The Domina\'92s question has received its answer.\'94 \
\
\'93Qh dear!\'94 cried Aurelia, lifting the-curtain. \'91Camilla, I \
vow that I have called you at least thirty times, and cannot get \
a reply. What can you be doing which appears to be of such \
intense interest that it deafens you to everything else? I want \
Sophronia this minute. Here is Actius swearing by Mercury and \
all the gods that if he does not get three more pairs of hands at \
least, he can never have the banquet ready to-morrow night. \
Go, Sophronia, and put yourself under his orders ; he will tell \
you what todo. This heat is insufferable: I wish we were in \
Ultima Thule!\'94 \
\
Camilla, not in the best of humours at the sudden and unin- \
teresting interruption of what was to her a most interesting con- \
versation, signed to Sophronia to obey. The slave, enchanted, \
as by a fairy\'92s wand, into the silent, passive being which she always \
seemed in public, quickly folded her work and descended to the \
kitchen. \
\
\
CHAPTER [Y. \
\
\
DOMESTIC LIFE IN POMPEII. \
\
\
\'91Te is not reason makes faith hard, but life.\'94 \
\'97JEAN INGELOW. \
OMAN ladies never condescended to soil their fair \
fingers with cookery, which they regarded as work \
only fit for slaves. However many pairs of \'91hands \
had been required, therefore, by Actius, he might \
have sighed in vain for those of Aurelia or her daughters. \
\
The kitchen, when Sophronia entered it, was far from being \
either silent orempty. It consisted of two rooms, the inner one \
opening out of the atrium, the outer communicating with the \
street, which in this instance was the Via Sacra. In the outer \
apartment a number of slaves were busied in mixing ingredients, \
cleaning vessels, and conducting the minor or rougher operations \
of cookery, under the superintendence of four important persons \
in the inner kitchen. \'91These were Actius the master-cook, the \
carver, the structor or arranger of dishes, and an elderly female \
slave, the head assistant in this department, who stood rolling \
out pastry, and expressing great satisfaction that \'93that lazy, \
worthless slattern \'94 Sophronia was come at last. \
\
The master-cook, garbed in white, with a long ladle in his hand, \
promenaded the kitchen, issuing very peremptory orders to all in \
his employ, and rather disposed to forget that orders took time \
to execute. Under his instructions, Sophronia proceeded to mix \
the materials for coptz and placente,\'97namely, cheesecakes and \
almond cakes\'97to assist with the peacock, and to help in various \
\
\
DOMESTIC\'93 LIFE IN POMPEII, 37 \
\
\
ways in the preparation of such dishes as could be wholly or \
partially got ready on the day before the banquet. \
\
It was not often that Paratus joined his family at supper, as \
he did on this occasion. A Roman gentleman lived out of doors, \
and was oftenan accomplished diner-out. The ladies were usually \
keepers at home, though they were much less strictly secluded \
than was the custom among the Greeks. On coming into the \
atrium, the master of the house brought with him an amount of \
scent which perfumed the whole area, for he had just left the \
therme. Here a slave was in waiting, with a loose white robe, \
which Paratus put on, having thrown off his pallium. The ladies \
were already in the triclinium when he appeared. He kissed his \
daughters, whom he had not seen since the previous evening ; \
and then reclined himself on one of the couches, leaning on his \
left side, his arm being supported bycushions. Aurelia, inarobe \
of the same loose sort, with ivyin her hair, reposed on the opposite \
couch ; while Marcia took her seat at the feet of her mother, and \
Camilla at those of her father. The attendants were three slave \
boys, dressed in loose tunics. The supper this evening was a \
very meagre one, since every one was busy preparing for to- \
morrow ; and the meal consisted merely of olives, eggs, a couple \
of pheasants, a turbot, a water-rat, and some open tartlets. \
Paratus ate his olives and eggs in silence, but at length, as the \
pheasants were coming in, abruptly asked a rather unexpected \
question. \
\
Well, Domina\'97I suppose it is too late to put off to-morrow\'92s \
banquet ? \'94 \
\
\'93 Quite too late, Domine. It could not be done. But what \
can make you wish to postpone it ?\'94 \
\
\'93Then,\'94 rejoined Paratus, answering categorically, \'91\'91I presume \
we must do as best we can with the other guests. But is it \
not vexatious? Strophius cannot come.\'94 \
\
Strophius was to have been thelionof the evening, and Aurelia\'92s \
face expressed her annoyance quite as clearly asher rather profane \
exclamation in reply. One of the slaves, startled by her sudden \
speech, or by the fact that his fellow-slave as he passed him \
bestowed on him a sharp pinch, let the turbot fall, and Aurelia, \
raising herself from her couch, rewarded him by a box on the ear \
\
\
38 THE SLAVE GIRL. OF POMPEII, \
\
\
\'93By Hercules, Domine, but this is too bad!\'94 resumed the \
lady, in the intervals between the eating, in a primitive and \
forkless manner, of the leg of a pheasant. \'91 Why, the whole \
charm of our banquet departs with him! Rufus Maximus is a \
prosy old man, and Arrius Pamphilius never says a word that is \
worth hearing. Why cannot Strophius come?\'94 \
\
\'93He has promised to sup with Caius Cuspius Pansa; and I \
am afraid some of our other guests will be invited also. I met \
Pansa at the therme this afternoon, and he did me the honour \
to ask me; but I told him I was bound to sup with Cneius Paratus \
Agricola and the Domina Flavia Aurelia Cotta\'97for to that we \
shall be reduced if the Addile invite all our intended visitors.\'94 \
\
\'93 Howtiresome of the A\'91dile!\'94 said Aurelia. \'91\'91 If he had only \
told you yesterday, what trouble it would have saved us!\'94 \
\
Paratus shrugged his right shoulder in a resigned manner, and \
helped himself with his fingers to more turbot. \
\
\'93 This is annoying !\'94 said Aurelia again. \'91* Didianus, go and \
tell Actius that I must see him immediately. Bid him come \
to me here at once,\'97but for how long, Domine, is the banquet \
to be postponed? Would the next day answer as well, because \
in that case some things would keep?\'94 \
\
\'91* N\'97o, I do not think it would,\'94 said Paratus with some \
hesitation, \'91 Pansa said something about asking Strophius to \
pay him a visit at his villa near Retina; so we must hardly after \
that invite him for the next evening. You had better make \
arrangements, Domina, for postponing the banquet indefinitely, \
and I will try to see Strophius early in the morning and find out \
when he can come. Let me see\'97do you suppose he would be \
visible by the first hour? Do authors rise any later than other \
men P\'94 \
\
\'93\'a2 Farlier, I should rather think,\'94 said Aurelia, taking a tartlet. \
\
\'91J don\'92t know that,\'94 answered Paratus; \'91men who write by \
lamplight in August won\'92t be in a hurry to turn out of bed when \
they hear the breakfast-cakes cried. Here is Actius.\'94 \
\
Ladle in hand, and face red from the fire, entered the master- \
cook. \
\
\'91\'91 Well, Actius,\'94 said Aurelia, in a rather vexed tone of voice, \
the Dominus Strophius sups to-morrow with the A\'a2dile Pansa. \
\
\
DOMESTIC LIFE IN POMPEII. 39 \
\
\
So our banquet must be put off. How far have you got in your \
preparations ? \'94 \
\
\'91Nothing in the world that will spoil, Domina!\'94 said Actius, \
with a flourish of the ladle: \'91only the stuffings and sauces, and \
the sweets. Some of the articles will come in admirably for \
supper to-morrow, and the rest may yet keep for the banquet, if \
it be not put off too long.\'94 \
\
\'91* As to that,\'94 returned Aurelia, \'91the Dominus will see the \
Dominus Strophius in the morning, and we shall then know what \
day he can come. Then you will arrange the matter, Actius, as \
you best can.\'94 \
\
Actius bowed, and retired with the ladle. \
\
Supper being over, Paratus and Aurelia amused themselves by \
taking an evening stroll on the terrace beyond the ecus ; while the \
girls retired to the ala, and resumed their work. Then Paratus \
threw himself on a couch in the atrium, and summoned all the \
slaves to his presence. Any requests, complaints, or necessities \
of any among them, were laid before him ; and having thus passed \
in review before their master, each slave wished him good-night, \
and retired. Aurelia, on hearing from the ala, whither she had \
retreated, their departing footsteps, ordered the girls to bed, and \
\'91going into the atrium, clapped her hands for the attendant slaves. \
It was scarcely yet dark, but the slave-girls, Libia, Flora, and \
Sophronia, brought lamps in their hands, each lighting her respec- \
tive mistress to her chamber. \
\
The bed-chamber to which Camilla, attended by Sophronia, \
repaired for the night, would be considered a very small room \
indeed according to modern ideas of comfort. It was lighted \
by a single window six feet from the floor, and its sole furniture \
consisted of two beds, and one seat placed between them. \'91The \
bedsteads were long and narrow, and raised so high from the \
\'91floor, that three steps were necessary to enable the owner to reach \
her resting-place. Their material was ebony, and they were orna- \
mented with figures in low relief. On the bedstead was laid a \
thick soft feather-bed, and on this a pillow in an embroidered \
pillow-case. There was no bolster. Two quilts covered the bed, \
purple in colour, and embroidered with gold. The other bed was \
rather less richly adorned ; it formed Camilla\'92s sofa by day, and \
\
\
40 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
Sophronia\'92s bed by night. Undressing was a quick performance \
to a Roman lady, and Camilla was ready for sleep in a few minutes, \
Private prayers were ceremonies of which she had no idea: and \
in passing the family altar before she came up-stairs, she had \
already offered worship to the Lares and infernal gods. So she \
quietly composed herself to sleep, while Sophronia, passing out \
into the ante-chamber, took up her position in the most retired \
corner, and standing with uplifted face, offered a long, fervent, \
silent prayer. This ended, she undressed, and creeping quietly \
into the bed-chamber, so as not to disturb her young lady, if she \
slept already, she lay down in the opposite bed. \
\
\'91Sophronia, are you asleep?\'94 said Camilla\'92s voice, softly, a \
few minutes afterwards. \
\
\'93No, Domina,\'94 answered the slave, starting up. \'91What does \
the Domina require?\'94 \
\
\'93 Lie still ; I only want to talk to you. What do you do every \
night in the ante-chamber, after I am in bed?\'94 \
\
\'93That is my time for prayer.\'94 \
\
\'93For what do you pray?\'94 \
\
\'93\'91 Everything I need.\'94 \
\
**T wish I knew how to pray as you do. Teach me.\'94 \
\
\'93The Lord Himself will teach the Domina, if she ask \
Him.\'94 \
\
\'93* How shall I ask Him?\'94 \
\
*\'91 As the Domina has asked me.\'94 \
\
Camilla was silent for a few moments. Then she said,\'97\'93 I \
will try.\'94 Sophronia made no reply, and the two soon sank to \
slumber. \
\
Rising in the morning was a longer and less easy process than \
undressing at night, for the toilet of a Roman lady involved a \
most liberal and elaborate use of cosmetics and beautifying \
appliances of all kinds. But in the early times of the Empire \
these were not so universally employed as when, in after ages, \
the great Pagan city was tottering to its fall Camilla accordingly \
neither painted her face in the morning, nor covered it with a \
paste of ass\'92s milk for the night. She contented herself with \
paying a visit to the bath-room and being scented all over ; after \
which her hair was dressed rather elaborately by Sophronia, she \
\
\
DOMESTIC LIFE IN POMPEII. 41 \
\
\
assumed her subucula and\'91stola, and came downstairs ready for \
family prayer. \
\
Paratus, in his capacity as priest towards his own household, \
stood ready to officiate at the altar on the north of the atrium. \
The slaves were all assembled in the latter apartment, to which \
Aurelia and her daughters had already repaired. I have said, a// \
the slaves ; but one was absent. Paratus,an easy-tempered man, \
who never troubled himself to interfere with the doings or opinions \
of others so long as they did not clash with his own dignity or \
convenience, had readily acquiesced in Sophronia\'92s timid petition \
that she might absent herself from the household devotions, at \
which, as a Jewess, her religion did not permit her presence. \
Paratus wore a sacrificing robe, and in his right hand he held a \
box of incense.. Each member of his household, approaching \
the altar, took from the box a pinch of the incense, and threw it \
on the flame which burned on the altar, saying as he did so, \'93 Be \
propitious to us, O Jupiter, whether thou art god or goddess.\'94 \
When all had sacrificed, they turned their faces to the east, and \
covered them in their palila, while Paratus recited various prayers, \
the attendants repeating them after him ina lower tone. Then \
followed more sacrifices to various other gods and goddesses, \
concluding with one addressed \'93to the fortunes of Czsar.\'94 \
These over, a hymn of praise was chanted by the younger \
members of the household in honour of Juno, the voices of \
Marcia and Camilla leading the chant. The prayers lasted above \
an hour, and were finished about five a.m. It will be seen that \
even in heathen eyes \'93the sacrifice was not prayer, but a prepara- \
tion for prayer.\'94 The work of the law written in their hearts \
taught even these ignorant men that the Deity must be propitiated \
before He could be petitioned. \
\
The family devotions concluded, Paratus wrapped himself in \
his pallium, and quitted the house. Aurelia, who had a some- \
what non-Roman weakness for an early breakfast, summoned \
Libia, and bade her bring into the peristyle a basin of polenta, \
a jug of milk, and some of the hot breakfast-cakes which were \
being cried in the streets, and left at the doors of regular custo- \
mers. On these cakes the bakers were accustomed to stamp \
their names with a metal die, thus practising the art of printing \
\
\
42 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
without knowing it. Marcia ordered bread and milk, with some \
roasted eggs; but Camilla, who preferred to defer her meal till \
later, went back to her work in the ala, which this morning \
consisted of painting. In another hour she reappeared, and \
despatched Sophronia for food; for breakfast among the Romans \
was not a family meal, but a little light refreshment taken as \
might best suit the convenience of the eater. Paratus rarely \
breakfasted at all: and on this occasion he did not present him- \
self at his own house till dinner-time,\'97that is to say, noon. He \
came. however, laden with news. \'93During the seven hours which \
his absence had lasted, he had seen Pansa and Strophius, had \
attended an exciting trial in the Court of Law, and had lounged \
about the Forum, entering into conversation with those who, \
like himself, were employed in killing time. On returning \
home he changed his dress, washed his hands in scented \
water, and put on a pair of loose slippers instead of his sandals. \
He was now ready for dinner, which was served in the tri- \
clinium, and consisted of eggs, turtle-doves, a goose, fish, and \
vegetables. \
\
\'93Well, Domine, have you seen Strophius?\'94 inquired Aurelia \
the instant he entered. \
\
\'93\'91T have, my dear,\'94 replied Paratus, extending himself on the \
couch with an air of languid weariness. \'93I hope those rascals \
won\'92t be long with dinner; I am frightfully hungry.\'94 \
\
\'91Flora shall go and hasten them,\'94 replied Aurelia. \'91\'91 But \
what does Strophius say ?\'94 \
\
\'93What I hope will be agreeable to the Domina Aurelia\'97That \
he cannot sup with us for three weekstocome. He is going with \
Pansa to his villa at Retina, but will return before his final \
departure for Rome.\'94 \
\
\'93He ought to be ashamed, and Pansa too. Nothing but \
olives will keep for three weeks.\'94 \
\
\'93Least ofall, a lady\'92s temper. Well!\'94 \
\
\'91Don\'92t talk about my temper!\'94 said Aurelia rather sharply. \
\
\'93No, my dear, I won't,\'94 returned Paratus. \
\
\'91What do you mean by that?\'94 asked the lady. \
\
\'93 My dear, it is extremely warm!\'94 said Paratus languidly, as \
\
\
Just as the boat began to move a man came flying with headlong speed, and \
with one bound alighted in the boat.\'97Page 5. \
\
\
44 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
if it were a weariness to him to speak. \'91\'93\'91 Daughters, you must \
eat up the placente.\'94 \
\
\'93 Trust us for that, Father!\'94 laughed Camilla, who was Paratus\'92s \
pet and spoiled child. \
\
\'93We must eat up everything,\'94 returned Aurelia, not so sharply \
as before. \'91\'91 Did you ascertain whether our other guests could \
come at the time convenient to Strophius ?\'94 \
\
\'93 Only Rufus Maximus, whom I met at the Forum ; but Pansa \
has promised to come himself with his visitor.\'94 \
\
\'93The Atdile! The banquet will be even grander than we \
proposed,\'94 said Aurelia in a gratified tone. \
\
\'91\'91 Tell Actius to do his best,\'94 said Paratus, \'91\'91 for Pansa is accus- \
tomed to sup on peacocks and brooding hens every evening.\'94 \
\
Aurelia laughed, and turned her attention to the goose. \
\
After dinner, the whole family thought it an absolute necessity \
to take asiesta. Paratus ordered a couch to be brought into the \
peristyle, declaring it too hot everywhere else ; Aurelia reposed \
inthe alawith the curtain undrawn; Marcia and Camilla preferred \
repairing to their bed-chambers. When his siumbers ceased, the \
master of the house took a ride on horseback, and afterwards \
joined in a game of tennis: and it may be remarked in passing, \
that stirrups and saddles were unknown to Paratus and his con- \
temporaries, who rode with no further convenience than a cloth \
fastened round the body of the horse. At the ninth hour (3 \
p.m.) a shrill bell, sounding all over Pompeii, announced the \
opening of the baths, the doors of which were instantly thronged. \
Paratus, who would as soon have dreamed of going without his \
dinner as without his bath, paid his daily visit to the establishment, \
and came home to spread a lavender scent all over the house. \
\
The day on which the long delayed banquet was to be given to \
Strophius and Pansa had been\'92 fixed for the 23rd of August. \
Meantime the provision for the former banquet had to be con- \
sumed, and finding more time than she had previously calculated \
on, Aurelia suddenly resolved upon having a new costume for \
the occasion\'97one of the light supper-robes in use at that time, \
but so elaborately worked and decorated, that a fortnight after \
its commencement, Marcia declared pettishly that she hated the \
very sight of it, and Camilla rather more good-humouredly \
\
\
DOMESTIC LIFE IN POMPEII. 45 \
\
\
remarked that she would not wish to see a needle for some time \
afier its completion. The robe was of the most delicate tint of pale \
blue, nearly white, and the embroidery was executed in blue and \
silver, Actius was extremely busy, in conjunction with Ccenis, the \
elderly female slave, in concocting such a bill of fare as he thought \
would please his owners, since Aurelia had given orders that the \
deferred banquet was to be ten times more sumptuous and costly \
than the one originally contemplated. Accordingly he struck \
out all the common everyday things, such as venison, pheasants, \
ducks, turtle-doves, lobsters, and turbot ; substituting in their \
stead the following elaborately prepared and (to a Roman palate) \
delicious dishes: Fried grasshoppers; a porpoise; capons\'92 livers \
steeped in milk; flamingoes\'92 tongues; snails; white maggots \
bred in old timber (this was one of his choicest dishes) ;: sucking \
puppies. These, with a brooding hen, a peacock, mullet, \
sturgeon, a pig half boiled and half roasted, thrushes, and the \
other minor ev\'a2remets which had been mentioned for the previous \
entertainment, Actius thought, might do even for such a guest \
asthe Aidile. The rarest wines were cooled in ice to be ready for \
the banquet; all the slaves who were to wait at table received new \
clothing for the occasion ; Actius and Ccenis, upon whom the \
chief responsibility devolved, were up early and late for some days \
before the time appointed ; while Aurelia was here, there, and \
everywhere. She appeared almost ubiquitous, and went through \
an amount of hard work which would have daunted most of her \
dependants. \
\
\'93 Really I am sorry,\'94 remarked Aurelia one evening, \'93that \
I am obliged to leave you girls so much to yourselves. You \
ought to have a chaperone. Since old Domitiana died, I \
thought I could perhaps look after you myself, and you have \
arrived at what ought to be years of discretion: but I do not \
like this way of going on, and when this banquet is off my \
hands I shall look out for some one. If only one could \
put one\'92s head out of doors without being completely scorched \
up! How much longer can this drought last ?\'94 \
\
The drought did not last much longer: but it broke up in a \
manner anticipated neither by Aurelia nor any one else. \
\
\
CHAPTER V. \
\
\
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS. \
* Doomsday is near, and all the heavens are falling.\'94\'97Old Play. \
\
\
RRA NLY a few days remained before the banquet. The \
ac atmosphere was troubled, and so were the minds of \
iS men. Slight shocks of earthquake continued at times \
7 to shake the houses. Strange noises were audible, \
both in the air and under ground. Some inhabitants declared \
that they had seen giants a dozen feet in height hovering in the \
sky, and were certain that some dreadful calamity was impending \
over the country. The majority only laughed at them; and \
among those who believed, or professed to believe. their story, \
not one took any means to escape from the doomed city. The \
air grew heavy, the atmosphere lurid, the sun more scorching \
than ever. Many citizens who had country houses quitted the \
stifling streets of the town for the purer air of the villa: yet even \
there the purity existed rather in imagination than in reality. \
The day appointed for the banquet rose as one of the very \
hottest, driest, most unendurable days of all that unendurable \
summer of A.D. 79. The dust and sand blew blindingly through \
the streets, the sea roared and flung its waves about as if in \
anger, and the sky gave the impression to every one who saw It \
that a terrible thunderstorm would come before the following \
morning. \'91The strange underground and atmospheric noises \
continued more decidedly and mysteriously than ever. \
As the day wore on, the indications of a thunderstorm deep- \
\
\
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS. 47 \
\
\
ened and increased; and the wiid roar of the sea breaking on \
the shingle might be heard far off. But in the house of Paratus, \
at least, every one was too much occupied to take any notice of \
the coming storm. By three o\'92clock the heavy part of the work \
was over. Both Paratus and Aurelia then paid a visit to the \
thermz, and afterwards dressed for supper; Aurelia presenting \
herself in her new embroidered robe, with gold bracelets, neck- \
lace, and ear-rings, pearls and rose-buds being mingled in her \
hair, Paratus too was splendidly attired in a white robe, with \
purple slippers. \'91The slaves wore their new dresses, and had \
wreaths of roses on their head. \'91The ecus, where the party were \
to sup, had been carefully perfumed with scented waters; the \
tables were of thyine, or citron-wood, and rich inlaid marbles, \
with sconces of silver. At the end of the room was a large and \
a handsome buffet piled up with plate; and the corners were \
occupied by vases of liliesand roses. \'91The dice, intended for the \
amusement of the guests in the intervals between the courses, \
were on a small table ready to be brought forward; and round \
the apartment stood the slaves, either girt with napkins to wait \
upon the guests, or bearing large fans to cool them. \
\
Marcia and Camilla retired to the ala,\'97for their presence at \
the banquet would have been considered a great impropriety-\'97 \
and drew the thick claret-coloured curtain which at the pleasure \
of the occupants shut off that apartment \'91rom the atrium; Flora \
and Sophronia following, to attend upon them. Lucipor, one of \
the slave-boys, was appointed to be at their service, and received \
orders to bring to the ala, on their dismissal from the ecus, such \
dishes as the young ladies might choose\'97thrushes excepted, \
which no Roman maiden was allowed to taste until she reached \
the dignity of matronhood. \
\
As the sisters crossed the atrium, Camilla looked up through \
the compluvium, and saw what a wild, weird, fearful-looking \
evening it promised to be. . \
\
\'93Took, Marcia!\'94 she exclaimed. \'91Whata lurid sky! Is \
anything coming ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91A thunderstorm, no doubt,\'94 was the response. \'91I hope \
our guests will not be frightened away. d-should say there is \
sure to be a violent storm betore morning.\'94 \
\
\
48 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
Camilla sat down quietly in the ala; but Marcia, who was \
naturally of a more inquisitive disposition than her sister, took \
up her position close to one side of the curtain, whence, by a \
withdrawal of the heavy drapery too slight to reveal her presence, \
she could see the guests as they passed from the atrium to the \
peristyle. \
\
The abode of Paratus\'97mistakenly known to modern visitors \
as the House of Pansa the Atdile, which it certainly was not, but \
that of his friend Paratus\'97was one of the handsomest houses \
in Pompeii. Like all good Roman houses, it consisted of a \
vestibulum; an ostium or inner hall; a large square atrium, which \
was the general living-room alike for family or guests; the \
peristyle, which may be compared to a drawing-room ; and two \
triclinia, or dining-rooms, the smaller used in winter, and the \
larger in summer. The summer triclinium was of the kind \
known as an ecus, and opened on the garden beyond. The \
rooms already mentioned followed each other in a straight line ; \
but from both atrium and peristyle opened on either side smaller \
rooms, such as lay entirely open known as alz or wings, and \
those which had doorways being bed-chambers. All these were \
capable of being closed by curtains. From the peristyle and \
one of the alz, a passage led to a side door. \
\
The guests began to arrive a little before fouro\'92clock. Most \
of those who came first were already known to Marcia by \
sight, and some were old family friends. The two lions of the \
evening, the author Strophius and the A\'91dile Pansa, were among \
the last to present themselves. \
\
\'93Q Camilla!\'94 whispered Marcia, dropping the curtain, \'91he \
doesn\'92t look a bit like my-idea of an author. He is neither \
tall nor handsome. MJRather a short man, with a round beard \
and a brown complexion, and nothing particular in his face. \
He isn\'92t half as good-looking as the Atdile.\'94 \
\
Marcia, having satisfied her curiosity, now condescended to \
sit down and appease her hunger. Dish after dish were brought \
in by Flora, as they were handed to her by Lucipor, Sophronia \
remaining inside to supply any want that might arise. Marcia, \
who loved good eating, declined almost everything until the pig \
should appear\'97a dish of which she was particularly : fond. \
\
\
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS. 49 \
\
\
Fut when the dish which ought to have immediately preceded \
this was withdrawn, the pig did not come. \'91There was evidently \
something going on outside. They heard voices as if in alarm, \
and at length Ccenis said audibly, \'91The gods help us!\'94 \
\
\'93Do go out, Sophronia, and see what is the matter!\'94 cried \
Marcia, impatient for her favourite delicacy. \
\
Sophronia was about to obey, when a sound louder than a \
dozen claps of thunder\'97a crash as if all Campania were broken \
up and falling\'97a roar like the roar of a hundred lions\'97broke on \
the ears of the terrified girls. The next moment the curtain was \
pushed violently aside, and a man unknown to the girls made \
his appearance, with Paratus himself behind. \
\
\'93Go with this gentleman, daughters !\'94 he cried, hurriedly, \
his face white as ashes. \'91I put you in his care; obey him as \
you would me. I must save your mother.\'94 \
\
The girls sprang up, pale and trembling, as Paratus dis- \
appeared. \
\
\'93\'93Escape for your lives!\'94 peremptorily said the stranger. \
\'93The mountain is on fire!\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, cannot we be safe in Pompeii?\'94 faintly murmured \
Camilla. \
\
\'93\'91 Safe!\'94 was the abrupt response. \'91There will be no such \
place as Pompeii by morning light! Come, all of you who value \
your lives\'97there is not a moment to be lost !\'94 \
\
Out, wildly hurrying, through the peristyle, by the side \
door, into the Via Sacra, the man forced the horrified maidens. \
But at the threshold Camilla paused, and let the rest pass \
her. \
\
\'93\'91 My father! my mother!\'94 she faltered. \'91\'91 Where are they ? \
Let me stay with them!\'94 \
\
\'93The gods aid them!\'94 answered the stranger. \'91\'91It is every \
man for himself to-night. Come on!\'94 \
\
And seizing the hand of the hesitating girl, he ran swiftly \
down into the street. \
\
\'93OQ my father! my father! I cannot leave thee!\'94 wildly \
cried Camilla, trying in vain to break loose from the rough bu: \
kindly grasp wherein she was he'd. \
\
\
\'93Domina!\'94 whispered the soft voice of Sopkronia close to \
D \
\
\
So THE SLAVE GiklL OF POMPEI, \
\
\
her, it will do them no good to die with them. Look, \'97pray, \
\'97and go on!\'94 \
\
Camilla looked up for an instant, in the direction indicated \
by Sophronia, and just caught one glimpse of Vesuvius. She \
saw a column of fire springing up into the air, whence huge, \
red-hot stones and showers of burning cinders were cast upon \
the plain beneath: and she made no further attempt to evade \
the efforts of him who was endeavouring to save her. \
\
On reaching the Via Sacra, the stranger glanced up and down \
the street, and then instantly selected the western road. Marcia \
exclaimed at this, remarking that the eastern direction, through \
the Forum, would be much better. \
\
\'91* No,\'94 answered the stranger abruptly : \'93the Forum is already \
crowded. There is more chance of escape for us by the Her- \
culaneum Gate.\'94 \
\
\'93Where are you going, Domine?\'94 \
\
\'91To the only place where there is any hope of life\'97the sea. \
lon\'92t ask me questions, but come along as fast as you can.\'94 \
\
Hurrying up the Via Sacra, and out at the Herculaneum \
Gate, the fugitives found themselves, when they had got clear \
of the tombs and villas which stretched beyond the Gate, on the \
broad line of the Via Appia. As soon as the structures ceased \
the stranger, followed by the girls, struck across the first open \
ground to which he came, and ere long they stood on the beach. \
The terrible roaring of the mountain was distinctly heard ; and \
the torrent of red-hot lava, which poured from the summit in a \
south- westerly direction, showed like a bright fiery streak against \
the luridsky. \'91The clouds of smoke and ashes obscured the sun \
as in an eclipse; and though it was barely six o\'92clock on an \
August afternoon, the light was scarcely sufficient to distinguish \
faces. The immense stones, which the crater cast forth in all \
directions, had scarcely yet reached the shore where the little \
band stood, but the hot ashes were beginning to fall sparingly \
apoutthem. Marcia had caught up a thick woollen palla which \
lay in a corner of the room, in which she wrapped herself; but \
Camilla was only in her stola\'97a poor protection from the hot \
ashes. \
\
On arriving at the shore, the stranger made towards a boat \
\
\
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS. 51 \
which lay close at hand. \'91The citizens were now hurrying by \
dozens to the sea. Others sought the open fields, where most \
of them were killed by the burning stones. Many\'97women \
especially\'97shut themselves up in the most retired parts of their \
houses, and their death was the most terrible of all. The man \
who headed our little group sprang into the boat, never pausing \
to inquire whose it was, but glad to seize upon it before any \
one else could do so. On that awful night, every man con- \
sidered that his own property by which he could save his life. \
\
As the women stepped into the boat, trembling with fear, they \
discovered that another had added herself to the group. This \
proved to be Flora, who was carrying a burden rolled up ina \
napkin. They took her in without any questions, and the \
stranger, drawing a short sword from under the festal robe \
which he still wore, cut the rope which bound the boat to the \
strand. Just as she began to move, a sixth figure came flying \
with headlong speed from the Herculaneum Gate, and with \
one bound alighted in the boat. For an instant the sisters \
hoped that it might be their father: but as the new-comer \
seated himself before them and seized an oar, they saw that \
he had the face of a stranger. \
\
\'91Pull away, whoever you are!\'94 shouted the leader. \
\
It was necessary to speak loud, for a confused medley of \
noises was all around\'97the roar of Vesuvius, the screams of \
the frightened women on the shore, the shouts of the men \
trying to collect their families for escape. \
\
\'93Pull away!\'94 he repeated. \'93Iam glad of you, for men\'92s \
hands are better than women\'92s at this work, and this is not a \
night for an oar to lie idle.\'94 \
\
The new-comer obeyed, but in a minute he said to the \
other, whose name he seemed to know.\'97\'91\'91 Where are you \
going, Domine?\'94 \
\
\'93Nay, by Bacchus! I don\'92t know,\'94 returned Strophius. \
\'91\'93Any whither out of the reach of yon burning mountain. \
I believe I was pulling in the direction of Herculaneum, but \
whether so frail a boat as this could ever get there : \
\
\'93The boat might,\'94 replied the stranger, \'93if all else were as \
easy. But how are we to reach it? Look behind you.\'94 \
\
\
52 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEIT. \
\
\
Strophius did so, and uttered a cry of horror. The pro- \
montory to the west of Pompeii, where two hours before had \
stood Herculaneum and Retina, was now one sheet of living fire. \
\
\'91With your leave, Domine,\'94 resumed the new-comer, \'93 we \
must pull in precisely the opposite direction. You are coasting \
too closely.\'94 \
\
And, suiting the action to the word, he put the boat about, \
and it flew through the water in the direction of Stabize. \
\
\'93But what are you doing, and where are you going?\'94 \
exclaimed Strophius. \'91You are pulling away from the shore \
into the open sea\'97we shall be lost!\'94 \
\
\'93Better death by water than by fire,\'94 laconically answered \
the stranger. \
\
Just as he spoke, a red-hot stone, weighing many pounds, \
dropped hissing and sparkling into the water within a yard of \
the boat. . \
\
\'91\'91 You are answered, Domine. We are too near the shore, \
even yet.\'94 \
\
And to the evident uneasiness of Strophius, and alarm of \
the girls, he rowed still further out into the bay, Strophius \
following his lead even while he protested. For a few minutes \
longer they rowed in silence. \
\
The sea, which through the day had been unusually violent, \
was now comparatively calm. Nature appeared to have relieved \
her pangs by the wild outburst of stones, ashes, fire, and \
smoke, which continued to pour forth like a torrent from \
the crater of Vesuvius. What had been Herculaneum was \
now burning lava; darkness like midnight hung over what was \
yet Pompeii. Sun, moon, and stars were invisible, and it was \
impossible to judge whether it were night or day. A thick \
cloud of smoke and dust was spread over the whole sky. It \
was just light enough in the boat to discern one object from \
another. Marcia had thrown her thick palla over her head, and \
had bent her head upon her knees, so that a heap of brilliant \
scarlet only betokened where she sat. \
\
\'91\'a2Who are you, and how do you know my name?\'94 Strophius \
at length abruptly demanded of the stranger. \
\
\'91The Dominus Strophius is known now to most in Pompeii,\'94 \
\
\
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS. 53 \
\
\
] \
\
\
was the reply. But I am only a stranger there, and my story \
may be told in a few words. Iam a Latin by descent, but a \
Greek by birth. My father, a Roman citizen, settled at Corinth, \
where I was born ; and my name is Marcellus Victor. My father \
left me a little property, all of which I unfortunately laid out at \
Rome a few months ago in the purchase of merchandise, which \
I hoped to sell to a profit in Corinth. In returning to Greece, \
the ship which bore me and my little fortune was wrecked, and \
I was thrown ashore, having saved only my life. on the coast of \
Campania. I walked to Pompeii, in the hope of obtaining alms \
which might enable me to return to Greece, where only I am \
known, and where some of my father\'92s friends might perchance \
help me to something whereby I could obtain a livelihood. \
Between begging and working, I collected enough for my pas- \
sage, and should have set out some weeks ago, had I not \
suddenly been seized by sickness, which consumed nearly all \
my fund, and left me almost penniless, thus obliging me to set \
to work again to obtain money for my journey home. I \
have now recovered from the illness which attacked me, but \
had only gathered a few denarii, when you know what has \
come to-night.\'94 \
\
\'93You appear, then, to have been an unhappy man,\'94 remarked \
SErepiauss \'93The Goddess Fortuna has been unpropitious to \
\
ou.\'92 \
\
: The only answer of Victor was, \'93The night is coming on \
rapidly. Dominz, have you anything to wrap yourselves in? \
and have we any food ?\'94 \
\
Food! who had thought of it! \
\
\'93T have a palla,\'94 said Marcia, lifting her head. \'93 Here, \
Camilla, come and wrap yourself up in this with me. \'91The \
slave-girls me do as they are. As to food, I am afraid no one \
brought any.\'94 \
\
Camillagladlyaccepted her sister's invitation to share her palla, \
for she began to feel the cold exceedingly, and was not accus- \
tomed at any time to be out of doors with so slight a covering \
as her stola afforded. . \
\
\'93No food!\'94 echoed Strophius in dismay. \
\
\'93Yes, Domine,\'94 responded Flora in a doleful voice from the \
\
\
34 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPETT, \
\
\
stern of the boat. \'91I had the copte in my hand to bring in \
to the young ladies, when that horrid crash came, and I thought \
whether the world was coming fe an end or not, we didn\'92t need \
to lose them\'97so here they are.\'92 \
\
\'93And I caught up two loaves, which are in the bosom of \
my tunic,\'94 said Sophronia. \
\
The Roman loaf was a round, flat cake, not unlike a large \
muffin in shape. \
\
During this little dialogue, Victor had been using one hand \
to divest himself of his pallium, a thick white woollen wrapper, \
and now handing it to Flora, he said as respectfully as if the \
slave girl had been a lady of high degree,\'97 \
\
\'91If you will take this, and your companion will come beside \
you in the stern, the pallium will cover both of you.\'94 \
\
Flora stared at Victor in speechless amazement: but Soph- \
ronia answered quickly,\'97\'91\'91 Oh no, Domine, we cannot think \
of such a thing! You will feel the cold, and we are only \
slaves, and are accustoined to hardships. We both thank you \
most humbly for the generous offer.\'94 \
\
\'93T shall certainly not feel cold while I am rowing,\'94 was \
Victor\'92s answer, \'93and you can scarcely be more accustomed \
to hardshipsthan Iam. Do as you please: I shall not use it.\'94 \
\
He added a few words in Greek, among which Camilla \
fancied that she caught the mystic \'91\'91\'92Ix4v\'a2,\'94 and she immedi- \
ately guessed that their new friend was a Christian. She was \
confirmed in the idea by observing the instant effect of the \
low-toned words on Sophronia, who, merely repeating her thanks, \
took up the warm garment and changed her seat, so as to \
wrap it round herself and Flora. \
\
\
CHAPTER. VI, \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. \
\
\
\'91\'91 We stand and pass \
On to some end which yet we cannot see." \
\
\
\'97 Mrs. Hamitton Kine. \
\
\
Ca EAHE air was still thick and obscure when day-light broke. \
\
\
Sf Still the shower of ashes poured down on the shores \
WY of the bay; but the bay itself was left behind by this \
\
\
time. A very natural query now presented itself for \
solution, What were they going todo? Where, and how soon, \
could they hope to land? No one could answer these questions. \
Two things only were certain\'97that they could not cruise about \
without food for an indefinite time, and that it would be certain \
death to attempt a landing until the eruption was over. Marcia \
was piteously entreating to be put ashore anywhere\'97in an un- \
civilised country, or on an uninhabited rock\'97it mattered not: \
anything, even red-hot cinders, was preferable to the horrible \
sensations from which she was suffering. Strophius, too, un- \
accustomed to rowing, complained that he was worn out by his \
night\'92s work. Daylight had scarcely reached its full development \
when one of the oars was dropped from his numbed hand. He \
tried to recover it, nearly causing the boat to capsize in the \
attempt; but just as it appeared to be safely shipped, the oar, \
which was old and much used, snapped right intwo. There was \
a disaster! There was no twine by which it could be pieced. \
Strophius took off his girdle, and tried in vain to bind the broken \
halves together ; but at last he was obliged to recognise the \
effort to be useless. They were now reduced to three oars. \
\
\
56 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEM \
\
\
Victor plied his earnestly a little while longer; but before \
another hour had passed, he saw that one of them was cracked \
all the way up. Laying it down, he took up the fellow to the \
oar broken by Strophius, with a faint hope that they might \
manage to reach land before the remaining pair of oars should \
fail, as Strophius agreed that it was better to make land even \
in such danger than to risk certain starvation on the sea with \
no means of landing when the danger was over. Accordingly \
Victor pulled towards the shore, keeping as much to the east \
as he dared venture to do. Stabize was in sight, and the boat \
seemed to be gliding softly and safely towards the shore, when \
without a moment\'92s warning, the third oar snapped in two. \
\
\'93 Lost !\'94 exclaimed Strophius. \
\
\'93Not yet,\'94 said Victor calmly. \'91Will you pass me the \
cracked oar?\'94 \
\
Strophius obeyed, but it proved as unworthy as its fellows. \
Not half-a-dozen strokes had been made, when the crack \
widened, and the oar was completely spliced nearly the whole \
way up. Victor laid it down, with what seemed to his com- \
panions inexplicable composure. \
\
\'91\'a2We cannot land,\'94 said he quietly, \'93unless the wind spring \
up and drive us ashore: and there seems no likelihood of that.\'94 \
\
\'91What is to become of us?\'94 broke from Strophius and \
Marcia, emphasized by a shrill scream from Flora. \
\
\'93We can only drift now,\'94 answered Victor. \'91\'93 Possibly some \
ship may yet pick us up.\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, will they put us ashore at once?\'94 wailed poor Marcia. \
\
\'93No, that is not likely. We shall have to go whither the \
ship is bound, if it be to Joppa or the Cassiterides.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91And if no ship come near us?\'94 asked Strophius, with \
drawn brows and set lips. \
\
\'93\'911f not, death!\'94 said Victor in the same quiet tone. \
\
Marcia shuddered, and nestled close to her sister, as if the \
frail arms of another human creature could protect her from \
the King of Terrors. \
\
\'93Death !\'94 she whispered: \'93death! I am afraid of death\'97lI \
have never thought of death. Must we die? Will none of \
the gods take pity on us?\'94 \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. 57 \
\
\
\'93Death !\'94 echoed Strophius in the same startled tone as that \
of Marcia. \'93Die of hunger on the water, within sight of land! \
Can you give us no better hope than that, young man? I am \
no sailor; I know nothing of sea affairs.\'94 \
\
\'93To bid you hope any further, would be to deceive you,\'94 \
was Victor's reply. \
\
\'93But cannot we move the gods to pity?\'94 moaned Marcia \
again. \'91 We cannot offer sacrifice, but we can make vows.\'94 \
\
\'93Can we fulfil them ?\'94 said Strophius cynically. \
\
\'93We have nothing,\'94 added Camilla drearily. \
\
\'93And that is a price for which the gods do not barter their \
favours,\'94 sneered Strophius. \
\
\'91\'93\'91Qh, for mercy\'92s sake, do not brave the gods !\'94 cried Marcia. \
\'93 Now that we are in such dreadful need\'97if they should hear \
you, they will drown us all!\'94 \
\
Strophius answered by a shrug of his shoulders. \
\
\'93Oh, if we could but offer sacrifice!\'94 groaned Marcia. \'93TI \
am so frightened! I dare not die!\'94 \
\
The supreme moment of her life had come. And as all \
men do in that supreme moment, she recognised the awful \
position of an unclothed soul\'97the impossibility of standing \
before God without an atonement. Men may sneer at what \
they blasphemously call \'93sanguinary theology,\'94 and count the \
\
Blood of the Covenant an unholy thing: but bring them sud- \
denly face to face with death, and they will sneer no more. \
Unless, indeed, they are so wrapped up in the garment of self- \
righteousness that only death itself can tear the folds apart. \
\
Camilla looked up, and saw a corresponding expression to \
that of Marcia on the faces of Strophius and Flora, only varied \
in the former by a dogged, determined set of the lips, as though \
he were resolved not to acknowledge it. But his eyes allowed \
it in spite of his stubborn mouth. Glancing thence to the \
countenances of Sophronia and Victor, she was struck by the \
total difference of expression. These faces were both calm as \
the summer moonlight. Not a ripple of anxious care, despite \
their evident suffering from severe fatigue, broke the perfect \
peace which sat on brow and lips. \
\
\'93Is this the difference between us and Christians?\'94 said \
\
\
55 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
Camilla to her own heart. \'91Then I would I were one of them! \
It would be worth the cost of life, if one could feel thus when \
death stands at the door!\'94 \
\
For in that first age of the primitive Church, as it is often \
seen to be in times of persecution, when the hope of Heaven \
was frequently all that a man had of comfort, it was far more \
living and energetic than in our easy times. The Christians \
with furrowed brows, and drawn mouths, and querulous voices, \
do not flourish under Diocletian half so well as under Victoria. \
Oh, what a responsibility is theirs who bring up an evil report \
of the good land, and keep the fresh young spirits of the world \
from desiring to taste its clusters of grapes! The murmurers, \
so sternly rebuked in God\'92s Word, do even less harm to them- \
selves than to others. \
\
Silence fell for a time on the little party in the boat. \
Strophius sat with folded arms, his face evidencing that a battle \
was going on within him. Flora sobbed herself to sleep, rest- \
ing against Sophronia. Marcia had slipped downwards, where \
she lay with her head upon her sister\'92s knee, moaning at inter- \
vals, either from the uneasiness ot her physical feelings or from \
the suffering of her mind. Victor too sat with wreathed arms, \
but his calm eyes scanned the horizon, now and then looking \
upwards, with as little visible concern as if he were one of a \
party of pleasure. Yet there was nothing approaching to hard- \
ness or flippancy either in him or Sophronia. It was merely \
a grave, contented quietness. \
\
Strophius broke the silence at last, and with a joke, which \
was plainly assumed to hide his discomfort. \
\
\'93The shore looks inviting, does it not ?\'97at least so much \
as we can see of it. I doubt whether any inhabitants dwell \
here beyond crows and wild buffaloes. Perhaps we are as \
well here as over yonder.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Could we not live on those ?\'94 wailed Marcia, half raising \
herself. \
\
\'93The chances are that they would live on us,\'94 replied \
Strophius with a short, bitter laugh. \'91\'93 Make yourself easy, \
Domina Marcia ; we can\'92t get at them just at present. Heigh- \
ho! Well, / did not expect to die like a rat in a hole.\'94 \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. 59 \
\
\
Marcia answered by a moan. \
\
\'91\'91 Have you any idea of our bearings, Domine Victor? If \
we could go floating on in this style till we struck land, what \
land would it be?\'94 \
\
\'93"l'rinacria, I imagine, as the boat\'92s head stands now.\'94 \
\
\'91Can we live till we get there?\'94 \
\
\'91One or two might,\'94 said Victor in a low voice. \
\
Another low moan from Marcia was the only answer. And \
so, all through that day, they drifted on. \
\
When the night fell a second time, it sank upon a very weary \
and dispirited band of human creatures. \'91lhe slight food had \
been consumed some hours before. The rain was beginning \
to fall; and the wind rose, and the boat fled fast before it, \
tossing up and down in a manner which added another to the \
burdens of the sufferers. Marcia was the greatest sufferer of \
the group, because both from temperament and education, \
she was the most self-indulgent. Camilla and Sophronia bore \
up better; Flora best of all, for sh\'e9 had at once the hardiest \
health and the hardest nature. Strophius had sunk into a con- \
dition which in a little child might be termed a fit of the sulks. \
Victor sat calm and still, doing what little he could to ease the \
feelings of the women, but not revealing his own thoughts. \
\
They knew it could not be long before dawn should break \
on the second morning. Marcia\'92s feeling, and that of Strophius \
also, was the wish of Ajax\'97\'91\'93 And if our fate be death, give \
light, and let us die!\'94 \
\
Now and then a heavy sigh broke from Strophius, or a low \
moan from Marcia; and Flora could be heard sobbing at \
intervals. \'91The rest were silent. Suddenly Victor lifted his \
head, and after listening intently for a moment, to the as- \
tonishment of his companions, sent out over the sea towards \
the east, with all his remaining strength, a long shrill whistle. \
\
\'93Ts the man going mad?\'94 growled Strophius. \
\
But the next moment, in every heart sprang up a wild \
passion of hope, as a faint answering cry came over the distant \
waters. All the voices joined with their utmost power in the \
next shout, and for some minutes the cries responded to one \
another, the shout from the unseen coming every moment \
\
\
60 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
clearer and louder. At length some large dark object could \
be seen approaching them through the faint gleam of dawn. \
But the Roman hearts of the maidens failed them a moment, \
when they were able to distinguish words in the stranger\'92s \
shout, and heard that they were addressed in a foreign language. \
Victor, however, stood up and answered fluently in the same \
tongue ; and Strophius uttered the explanatory word\'97\'93 Greek.\'94 \
\
Then Victor turned to his companions. \'93She is a merchant- \
ship of Corinth,\'94 said he; \'93and will take us there. It is well ; \
I have friends at Corinth. Domina Marcia must be taken \
first.\'94 \
\
Had any one present been in a state of mind for philosophy, \
he might have found it amusing to see how the learned, middle- \
aged Strophius tacitly admitted the leadership of young Victor. \
It was the natural power of the capable over the incapable, in \
such matters ascameto hand. Had they been in a library, Stro- \
phius would just as naturally have been the prominent person. \
\
Marcia was almost unable to stand, and quite unfit to help \
herself. A hammock was let down into the boat, in which she \
was slung up; and after her, the rest of the women were helped \
up one by one. Strophius followed, and Victor came last. \
\
\'93\'91 Well!\'94 said Flora, when they were safe on board, rolling \
up the large white napkin in which she had carried her cakes, \
\'93at any rate, I\'92ve saved \'a2his /\'94 \
\
One thought lay very heavy at the heart of Camilla, to whom \
it seemed unaccountable that Marcia never even alluded to it. \
What had become of Paratus and Aurelia? Why had they not \
joined them on the shore as they had purposed? Had they \
been unable to get out of the city, pressed back by the crush \
of people ?\'97or had they perchance fled in the wrong direction, \
and been struck down by those red-hot thunderbolts which \
poured from the crater of the mountain? If it were only pos- \
sible to know! \
\
They met, somewhat refreshed by food and sleep, in the \
evening of the second day. \
\
\'91 Well!\'94 said Strophius after his greeting, \'93may the merci- \
ful gods carry us safe to Corinth, for it seems to be Corinth \
where we are to go. Domine Victor, did you not say you had \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. 61 \
\
\
friends there? I hope they will reward you for your trouble \
in getting at them.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91T hope they may. I have several friends at Corinth, but I \
must allow that I place very little dependence on any but one. \
That is a rich elderly man, of the name of Coriander,\'97an old \
bachelor, which is a very rare thing among us Greeks. He \
was for above thirty years a warm and intimate friend of my \
father, and was in former times indebted to him for a kind- \
ness which helped mainly to lay the foundation of his present \
prosperity. I think he is not the man to forget such an \
obligation, and he has frequently told me that in consequence \
of it, I might freely apply to him in any difficulty.\'94 \
\
** Tf he be an old bachelor, I presume he has no ladies in his \
household?\'94 inquired Camilla. \
\
\'93Yes, his widowed sister and her daughter were living with \
him when I left Corinth. The daughter, of course, I never. \
saw ; but I did once see the widow, the Lady Electra, and she \
seemed to be a kind, motherly woman.\'94 \
\
** Are ladies in Greece more secluded than in Italy ?\'94 asked \
Camilla. \
\
\'93 Decidedly,\'94 said Victor. \'91You might live a month in \
Coriander\'92s house and never see him once.\'94 \
\
This struck the Roman maidens as very odd. They had \
never mixed with their father\'92s evening guests; but had any \
one been staying in the house, they would have seen him as a \
matter of course. \
\
It was agreed among them that on fhal arrival in Corinth, \
Strophius should take charge of the ladies, while Victor went to \
see his friend with the least possible delay. Marcia continued to \
suffer so much that they feared serious illness for her, and it was \
desirable to get her safely and permanently housed without loss \
of time. \
\
All except Victor were sorely tired of the sea when at last they \
sailed into the harbour at Corinth. They induced the captain to \
put them ashore in a small boat at a nearer point to Coriander\'92s \
house than the quay to which he was bound; and there, having \
lifted Marcia on shore, they contrived a rough shelter from the \
sun by hanging Victor\'92s pallium from boughs, and spreading her \
\
\
62 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEL. \
\
\
own on the ground as a carpet. As soon as this was done, \
Victor set off to his friend\'92s house, while the rest sat down on \
the beach by the side of Marcia, who was very weak, and moan- \
ing with pain. It was a weary waiting. Strophius, declaring that \
he was unutterably glad to be anywhere on dry land, stretched \
himself in the shade of a bush and went to sleep. Flora very \
soon, though without intending it, was seen lying prostrate in the \
same condition; so that Camilla and Sophronia were left virtu- \
ally alone with the sufferer. Camilla felt rather nervous on find- \
ing herself in so unprotected a position in a strange country, and \
rose to look out for Victor several times before there was any \
possibility of his reappearance. But at last the perfect silence, \
the soft measured beat of the waves, and the sultry heat of a \
Greek summer afternoon, overpowered her also, as she sat \
leaning back against the tree. Even Marcia ceased to moan, \
and sank into a light slumber ; and Sophronia kept watch alone. \
\
She sat just at the edge of the palla, partially sheltered from \
the sun by the tall bush under which Strophius lay, the light \
darting through its openings to form flickering gleams upon her \
raven hair, as the wind softly moved the leaves to and fro. Her \
arms were clasped round her knees, her head uplifted to the \
heavens, and she was lost for the moment in a rapture of com- \
munion with God. It was a fair picture, and so thought some- \
body who came with noiseless step over the rank sea-side grass, \
and stood for a moment looking on her, unseen, before he spoke. \
\
\'91\'93\'91 How fair and how fearless she is!\'94 was the thought of \
Marcellus Victor. \'91\'93\'91\'91She is not afraid of evil tidings ; her heart \
is fixed, trusting inthe Lord.\'92 I almost grudge to call her back \
to earth.\'94 \
\
Before he had done so, Strophius suddenly awoke. \
\
\'93Come back already!\'94 said he. \
\
\'91\'91 How long have you slept?\'94 wasthe amused answer. \'93I \
have been away two hours. And here come Coriander\'92s slaves \
with a litter, to carry Domina Marcia to his house.\'94 \
\
\'93You found him, then?\'94 asked Strophius in a gratified tone. \
\
\'91And he will take us in?\'94 added Camilla, whom their \
voices had awoke. \
\
\'91\'91T have found everything,\'94 replied Victor, sitting down near \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. 63 \
\
\
them\'97\'91 food, shelter, and Coriander. He was most kind, and \
seems quite anxious to receive me and all my friends, whatever \
their number, for any length of time we may find it convenient. \
He said twice that he could not have a greater pleasure than \
to befriend my father\'92s son.\'94 \
\
\'93How very kind!\'94 responded Camilla. \
\
\'93I hope his coffers are heavy!\'94 said Strophius with a grim \
smile. \
\
\'93They are,\'94 answered Victor, echoing the smile, though in a \
more genial manner. \'91J find that during my absence from \
Corinth, a distant relative of Coriander has bequeathed him a \
very large property, and he is now one of the wealthiest men in \
Greece. His sister, the Lady Electra, is dead, and his niece has \
married : but his house is not destitute of a lady, since he has \
himself recently married. His wife, I hear, is very young\'97little \
over twenty\'97exceedingly beautiful, and very lavish in her ex- \
penditure \'94 \
\
While Victor was speaking, a handsome litter, borne by six \
stout slaves, had been brought and set down near the group; \
and another slave, with a low flat basket upon his head, now \
approached and knelt before them, saying a few words which \
Victor translated. \
\
\'93The Lady Irene greeted the stranger ladies, and begged \
them to refresh themselves, and come to her house.\'94 \
\
\'91he basket contained various kinds of light refreshments, and \
two of the tall two-handled silver cups commonly used in Greece. \
A second slave followed the first bearing a silver flagon of wine. \
The ladies were glad of the fruits of Irene\'92s considerate kind- \
ness; and when they had finished their repast, and Marcia had \
been lifted into the litter, the slaves took up the poles by which \
it was borne, and the remainder of the little group followed on \
foot. A walk of about a mile and a half brought them to \
a superb suburban villa, surrounded by beautifully-planted \
grounds. Three or four female slaves came out to meet them, \
and after reverent obeisances, they lifted Marcia carefully from \
the litter, and bore her into the house, by signs requesting \
Camilla to follow. Flora and Sophronia remained behind. \
\
The slaves carried Marcia into a rich apartment which opened \
\
\
64 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
on the peristyle, and was separated from it by a curtain so \
elaborately embroidered in colours that it was not easy to judge \
which of them formed the groundwork. It was a spacious, hand- \
some room, decorated much in the style to which the sisters had \
been accustomed at Pompeii, where Greek taste was the fashion, \
and Greek artists were largely employed. In a recess of the \
chamber, as if prepared for the occasion, lay a mattress, covered \
by a soft Persian carpet, and furnished with Carthaginian \
pillows; and here the slaves laid Marcia down, throwing over \
her a light covering. \'91I'hen, still by signs, they invited Camilla \
to seat herself, and disappeared behind another curtain. \
\
Camilla\'92s feeling was rather like that of a dreamer. But ere \
many seconds had been given her for reflection, the drapery was \
again drawn aside, and a young, graceful girl, attired in the \
most magnificent style of Greek costume, advanced into the \
room. Camilla instinctively felt that this was Irene, and rose \
to make reverence to her hostess. \
\
\'91The taste of the Lady Irene was unusually florid for a \
Greek girl. The colours of her robe were brighter, the em- \
broidery deeper, than were customary in ladies of this nation. \
But the pure Greek outline of her features forbade the idea \
that she could be of any other race, and so faultlessly beautiful \
were they that it was impossible to wonder at Coriander\'92s \
choice, whatever the disparity in years. \
\
Strange to say, it had never till that moment occurred to \
Camilla how very limited were her means of communication \
with her new friends. She had learned a few sentences of \
Greek from Sophronia, and was consequently just able to convey \
to Irene that she could not readily speak that language, and to \
suggest, in words which were very ungrammatical, and to the \
ear of the latter sounded very strange, that her attendant should \
be summoned as interpreter. Irene smiled graciously, bowed, \
and clapped her hands, in answer to which a slave immediately \
appeared, whom her mistress, speaking in a clear, musical voice, \
despatched for Sophronia. \'91The latter, whom the slave ushered \
into the apartment in a few minutes, seemed a little amused \
with her new function of interpreter, and placing herself mid- \
way between Camilla and Irene, waited for one of them to \
\
\
THE FUGITIVES FIND A HOME. 65 \
\
\
3 \
\
\
\'91speak. Camilla was the first, and desired her to convey to the \
Lady Irene her feelings of gratitude and pleasure at the welcome \
which she had so kindly vouchsafed to them in their distress ; \
and to ask her if she had been informed of the circumstances \
which had thus led them to require her generous hospitality. \
Irene, who as well as Camilla, had seated herself, answered \
that her husband had informed her of the circumstances under \
which they came, and that she was most happy to receive them ; \
at the same time inquiring the nature of Marcia\'92s illness, and \
remarking that Coriander had an excellent physician among his \
slaves. Camilla answered that she thought her sister's malady \
was more due to the shock and the subsequent exposure than \
to any positive disease, but that she and Marcia would both be \
grateful for a visit from a physician. Irene clapped her hands \
again, and commanded the slave who answered the summons \
to send in Dionysius. \
\
The physician, after making a low bow to his mistress, \
examined the patient, and pronounced that she required rest \
more than anything else, but that he would also administer a \
decoction of herbs which might prove of service. \
\
\'93Employ your best skill,\'94 said Irene as he was leaving the \
room, \'93or I shall tell your lord that he gave too much for you.\'92 \
\
The poor physician retired with a slightly flushed brow and \
a silent reverence. \
\
\'91JT understand,\'94 said Irene to Camilla, \'93that it is the custom \
of the Latins for gentlemen to mingle more freely in the society \
of ladies than is the habit of us Greeks: and my husband, who \
thinks this will be agreeable to you, and regards the Lord \
Victor as his own son, has desired me to conform to your \
customs in this respect while you do us the honour to be our \
guests. We will therefore, if you please, join my lord in the \
peristyle: but the sick lady will very likely prefer to remain \
here with her own attendant.\'94 \
\
Marcia was just then too ill to care for the society of any \
one, and she readily acceded to the suggestion of Irene. The \
latter therefore conducted Camilla into the peristyle, with \
Sophronia still in waiting as interpreter. Here they found, \
\
\
beside Strophius and Victor, an elderly gentleman, fresh-com- \
E \
\
\
66 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
plexioned and benevolent-looking, whom Camilla easily guessed \
to be Coriander. \
\
When the party were seated, and the introductions over, \
Sophronia modestly offered an inquiry whether her mistress \
would require her services as interpreter when Victor was \
present, and if she had not better go to Marcia, who was left \
without any means of communication with the outer world. \
Camilla assented, and Sophronia retired; but the former pri- \
vately determined to learn all the Greek she could, in as short \
a time as possible, since it seemed very likely that the remainder \
of her life would be spent in Greece. Supper followed, a most \
sumptuous entertainment ; and after supper the party repaired \
again to the peristyle, where Coriander requested that if agree- \
able to the party, Victor would give the history of his adventures \
since quitting Corinth. A last light meal followed later, and \
the party retired early, to Camilla being allotted the next \
chamber to that of her sister. Sophronia occupied a small bed \
in Camilla\'92s room; but the latter could not help noticing that \
her attendant was unusually restless, and once when she awoke \
in the night, she fancied that she heard her sobbing. \
\
\'93\'a9 Sophronia!\'94 she said. \
\
** Domina!\'94 answered the slave in a low tone. \
\
\'93 Are you ill, or does something trouble you? I thought I \
heard you sob.\'94 \
\
\'91Tam not ill, Domina\'97abundance of thanks! but the cause \
of my grief as yet I can utter to none but the Lord. Let the \
Domina not be angry with her slave to whom she is so good.\'94 \
\
Camilla\'92s attachment to Sophronia deepened every day, and \
she could not endure to see her in trouble. \
\
\'91\'93Can I remedy it, Sophronia ?\'94 \
\
\'93No, sweet Domina. There is but one remedy, and that is in \
the hands of the Lord Christ. Perchance He may show me that \
the source of my sorrow Is not so deep as it seems now. Whether \
or not, glory be to His holy name, who brings good out of evil, \
and the honey of righteousness from the bitter water of penitence. \
Sleep, I pray, sweet mistress, and question me no further.\'94 \
\
And Camilla was asleep almost before she had finished won- \
dering what could be the reason of Sophronia\'92s distress. \
\
\
CHAPTER Vil. \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. \
\
\
\'91* Sad losses have ye met, \
But mine is heavier yet, \
For a believing heart is gone from me.\'94 \
\'97FRANCES BROWNE. \
\
\
S<AQN the following morning, Coriander discovered in the \
\\) course of conversation that both Strophius and he \
Ye were ardent lovers of music. He at once proposed \
\
to take him into the city, and to let him hear some \
of the best Corinthian singers: for which purpose they would \
find it convenient to sleep at his house in town, and not return \
till the following day. Victor declined to accompany them. \
He said that he was still very much fatigued, and should be glad \
of a day\'92s quiet, to rest and think over his future intentions \
and prospects. \
\
Camilla followed Irene to the atrium of her private apart- \
ments, at the back of the house, where they found Sophronia in \
waiting, who informed them that Marcia was still asleep, and \
then, at the bidding of her mistress, sat down on the floor be- \
tween the two ladies. Irene took up her work\'97a piece of gor- \
geous embroidery ; and on Camilla\'92s expressing a wish not to be \
idle, invited her to help herself to the materials she preferred \
from a rich profusion on the table at her side. \
\
As Camilla returned to her seat she glanced at Sophronia, \
seated on the floor by Irene\'92s ivory chair. Her face was paler \
than usual, though she never had much colour; and her eyes \
looked heavy with weeping. But all at once Camilla was struck \
\
\
68 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPE, \
\
\
by a fact which she had never noticed before\'97a faint, indefin- \
able resemblance between the grave, pallid face of Sophronia, \
and the bright vivacious features of the beautiful Irene. She \
could not have said in what the likeness consisted, and the ex- \
pression of the two countenances was as different as possible ; \
yet now that she had once noticed it, it continued to strike her \
constantly. It was chiefly observable when Sophronia spoke, \
and when Irene was silent. \
\
Irene\'92s conversation for some time consisted of mere com- \
monplaces ; but after a little while she began to manifest a desire \
for information, questioning Camilla closely on many points \
pertaining to the customs and opinions of the Romans. About \
noon Marcia appeared, leaning on Flora, and declaring herself \
much better for the long rest. She still, however, seemed languid, \
and lay down on the \'91lhessalonian mattress spread in the recess. \
\
The sisters noticed that Irene appeared to have nothing to do \
except embroider and talk, and they presumed that Greek ladies \
left the management of their households to the slaves. Shortly \
before supper-time, a slave entered and knelt before her, whisper- \
ing a few words, on which Irene begged to be excused for a \
moment, and left the atrium. The curtain had scarcely fallen \
behind her, when Marcia said, feebly, but with unusual vivacity \
for her\'97 \
\
\'93Camilla, you never would guess who our new friend and \
hostess is! Flora tells me\'97I can\'92t imagine how she got to know, \
but slave girls will talk on their fingers if they cannot do it any \
other way\'97that she was a slave from the East, whom Coriander \
purchased for her beauty\'97isn\'92t she lovely P\'97and he made her a \
freed-woman, and married her. Could you have supposed such \
a thing ?\'94 \
\
Camilla had no time to reply, for as the last word escaped \
Marcia\'92s lips, Irene returned, and suggested that they should \
now adjourn to the peristyle, where Victor might join them. \
She did not resume her embroidery, but sat and continued the \
conversation, playing as she talked with one of her bracelets\'97 \
she wore many\'97until the string of the bracelet suddenly \
snapped, and the minute ornaments of which it was composed \
were scattered about on the mosaic pavement. \'91Irene uttered \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. 69 \
\
\
an exclamation of annoyance, while Sophronia rose from the \
floor, and gathering up the scattered articles, placed them in \
Irene\'92s hand. \
\
\'93Is not one missing ?\'94 asked Irene. \'91I think there should \
be another.\'94 \
\
Sophronia searched a little further, and soon found the miss- \
ing ornament, which had fallen close to Camilla\'92s feet. As \
Sophronia picked it up, a half-uttered exclamation, which she \
instantly repressed, escaped from her, and Camilla, glancing at \
the ornament in her hand, saw that it was a little silver fish. \
Sophronia gave it to Irene, and instantly quitted the room. Just \
as she left it, Victor came up the steps into the peristyle. \
\
\'91\'93* How very provoking!\'94 said Irene. \
\
\'91What is provoking!\'94 inquired Victor. \
\
Irene detailed the circumstances, adding, \'91\'91I happen to know \
that a fish is the emblem of some superstitious sect; and I am \
afraid, from her manner, that the girl does too, and will pro- \
bably set me down as being a follower of their doctrines, because \
I happen to have an ornament of that form in my bracelet !\'94 \
\
Camilla saw a very curious expression pass over Victor's face \
as Irene spoke, which led her to inquire what she had said. \
Victor translated the remark, and Camilla asked further what \
annoyance Irene anticipated from Sophronia\'92s mistake ? \
\
\'93Oh, nothing particular,\'94 said Irene; \'91\'91there is no persecu- \
tion in Corinth. But I certainly should not like to be classed \
with those low people. All creeds except that of philosophers \
are more or less irrational ; but the doctrines of the Christians \
appear to me the least rational of all.\'94 \
\
\'91What is the creed of philosophers?\'94 said Victor. \
\
\'93You a Greek, and require to ask that!\'94 exclaimed Irene. \
\
\'93Tam only half a Greek, and have been absent from Corinth \
for a long time. I should like to know what you believe.\'94 \
\
\'93T believe, of course,\'94 answered Irene, \'93in common with all \
disciples of philosophy, that there is but one first great cause of \
everything, which is fate; that no man can change or evade his \
fate, and that death is possibly an entrance into some higher \
\
sphere, but more probably an ageful sleep.\'94 \
\
\'93Then you do not believe in the gods?\'94 \
\
\
70 THE SLAVE. GIRL OF POMPEI, \
\
\
\'93The gods! What, believe in Zeus, Phoebus, Aphrodite? \
They are mere myths, beautiful allegories, designed for the in- \
struction of the lower classes, who need something apparent to \
the senses ; but ze\'97we have outgrown such follies.\'94 \
\
While Irene was speaking, Sophronia had re-entered the \
apartment, and had taken up her previous position, in readiness \
to obey the call of her mistress. Victor had not translated the \
last words of Irene, but Camilla could see by the expression of \
Sophronia\'92s face, that they were discussing some subject pain- \
fully interesting to her. \
\
\'91\'91T presumed that you meant something of that kind,\'94 quietly \
responded Victor. \'91But may I ask whether these philoso- \
phical doctrines stand the test of life ?\'94 \
\
- \'93What! you area believer in the old fancies? You pray to \
Phoebus to give you success in music and painting, and to Diana \
to reward your ardour in the chase! Is that so?\'94 \
\
* By no means. I am nota believer in what you call the \
\'91old fancies,\'92 but in the oldest religion of all, coeval with Him \
who made the earth and the heavens, even that which is from \
the beginning. I am one of the superstitious sect whom you \
so supremely despise.\'94 \
\
Irene turned fully to the speaker and gazing intently on him, \
said, in tones which implied far more than her words,\'97\'93 You \
are a Christian ?\'94 \
\
\'93TJ am a Christian,\'94 was the quiet answer. \
\
\'93J thought you had had more sense!\'94 replied Irene, not \
in an animated voice, but in a low tone of contemptuous pity, \
only one remove from apathy. \
\
\'91Ts it quite proved who shows the most sense? Will you \
answer my previous question\'97Do these doctrines of yours \
stand the test of life ?\'94 \
\
\'91*What do you mean by the \'91the test of life\'92?\'94 \
\
\'93I mean, will they avail you in all circumstances\'97console \
you in sorrow, and support you in death?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T have never had occasion to try them in either,\'94 was the \
rather flippant reply, \'93and therefore I cannot answer the ques- \
tion. But I suppose they would. I should have the consolation \
of reflecting that my fate was only the same as that of others, \
\
\
At the side of her bed stood a tall slight figure dressed in pure white, and hold- \
ing in her left hand a lamp, while with her right she shaded the light from the \
eyes of the slumberer.\'97 Page 75. \
\
\
72 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPET, \
\
\
and that no efforts of mine could avail to escape what was \
appointed for me by destiny.\'94 \
\
* A most consolatory reflection, no doubt. Destiny, then, \
is your god?\'94 \
\
\'93Certainly not. Destiny is not a person, but an abstract idea.\'94 \
\
\'91Then have you no God ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91T have no God,\'94 answered Irene. \
\
Victor sat silent fora moment. Then he said, in a low voice, \
as if to himself,\'97\'91** The fool hath said in his heart, There is \
no God.\'92\'94 \
\
The blood rushed for a moment to Irene\'92s cheek when she \
heard this quotation. \
\
\'93\'93You have heard that before, perhaps?\'94 \
\
She turned her head to spread the coverlet straighter over \
the nearest couch. \'91\'91 Perhaps. Perhaps not.\'94 \
\
\'93\'93T think it was not altogether strange to you. When I was \
last in Rome, I heard a letter read, which I fancy you will not \
know, wherein mention was made of some who, being ignorant \
of God\'92s righteousness, and going about to establish their own \
righteousness, had not submitted themselves unto the righteous- \
ness of God.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'a2Pray what has all that to do with me?\'94 said Irene. \'91\'91Philo- \
sophy knows nothing of righteousness, as you term it, otherwise \
than as a social virtue. Of course every man ought to be just \
to his fellows.\'94 \
\
\'93 Qught?\'97why? If there be no God to whom man is re- \
sponsible, how can there be any ought?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Man is responsible to himself and to humanity.\'94 \
\
\'91Very well. Then if I am responsible to myself, I can give \
myself leave to please myself. What a comfortable doctrine!\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2Of course you can, and should, so long as you do not inter- \
fere with other people. Happiness is the great aim of life.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Who is to hinder my interfering with others?\'94 \
\
\'93Virtue, of course.\'94 \
\
\'91But, on your principle, why should I be virtuous, if it do \
not please me? I thought happiness was to be the chief aim?\'94 \
\
\'91Vell, happiness is secured by virtue and philosophy.\'94 \
\
\'91Have you found it so?\'94 said Victor very quietly. \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. ya \
\
\
Irene flushed scarlet. \
\
\'93 Because,\'94 added he, \'93when I tried that plan, I did not find \
it so. I failed to discover happiness anywhere but in God.\'94 \
\
\'91What is the use of your talking to me about a God in whom \
I do not believe?\'94 asked Irene in a peculiar tone. \
\
\'93\'91 Because,\'94 said Victor in a tone intended only for her ears,\'94 \
\'93you do believe. Not with the heart, but with the head. These \
doctrines are not new to you: if I mistake not greatly, there \
was a time when you did believe them, and though you have \
tried since to shake them off, the broken links cling around you \
still. Aye, he who has known the truth can never be as though \
he had not known it. It must either be a golden chain to lead, \
or an iron chain to torture.\'94 \
\
\'93<T have heard all manner of doctrines, of all kinds of sects. \
My lord is a philosopher, and has friends in every school; and \
he tells me much they say to him. I may have heard some \
whims of your school among the others\'97if such a name can \
be given to such a superstition. Why should I not hear dif- \
ferent views? You are not, I hope, so exclusive and uncharit- \
abie as to imagine that none but your own sect stand any chance \
of happiness in that future world which you expect? Be happy, \
if it make you happy, with your own faith, and leave me to mine.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Your faith? Your unbelief, I think you mean. I am very \
uncharitable, as you use that phrase. I believe that they who \
shall be accounted worthy to stand in the resurrection can do it \
only through faith in the name of the Lord Christ.\'94 \
\
\'93You exclude us, then, from any portion in your Heaven?\'94 \
\
\'abYou exclude yourselves.\'94 \
\
Irene was silent. \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Assuredly, Lady Irene,\'94 said Victor, \'93these doctrines are \
not unknown to you. You have heard me use words\'97nay, \
you have used them yourself\'97in senses which otherwise would \
have required explanation. May I ask how this is? Have \
you been acquainted with any Christians, or have you read the \
Scriptures of the Law of Moses ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T know nothing about it!\'94 said Irene, rising suddenly with \
a flushed chcek. \'93 Ladies, will you be pleased to pardon my \
absence for a short time? My slaves will need direction.\'94 \
\
\
74 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
And, keeping her head turned away from them, she quitted \
the room. \
\
\'93What have you been talking about all this while?\'94 asked \
Marcia wearily from her couch, and Camilla\'92s eyes looked the \
same question. \
\
\'93* Metaphysics,\'94 said Victor, with a rather dry smile. \
\
** Metaphysics!\'94 echoed Marcia in an astonished tone. \
\
\'93Theology, if you prefer that term. I wish I could know \
how far the Lady Irene is acquainted with the Christian faith. \
That she does know something of its doctrines I am certain.\'94 \
\
* Christian!\'94 exclaimed Marcia. \'93Surely you have not been \
discussing the vile superstitions of those low fanatics! I wonder \
what you can find in them to interest you! I really should have \
thought, Domine, that a man of your intellect would not have \
taken pleasure in such topics.\'94 \
\
\'93Do you understand the question, Domina Marcia?\'94 \
\
\'93No, indeed! I never meddle with such rubbish.\'94 \
\
\'91Then I fear that I shall sink into a low fanatic in your \
eyes when you know that I am a Christian.\'94 \
\
Marcia gazed at Victor with an expression of countenance \
which she might naturally have worn had he confessed himself \
a burglar. Camilla, who greatly admired his honesty and \
courage, gave him an approving smile. \
\
** May the gods help us!\'94 cried Marcia at last. \'91I think I \
never was so shocked in my life! To think of an educated \
gentleman not ashamed to be a Christian! I never heard of \
such a thing!\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T am not ashamed of my hope,\'94 said Victor quietly. \
\
\'91Why, Camilla !\'94 added Marcia, as her eyes caught those of \
her sister, \'93\'91I declare you are actually smiling! You do not \
look in the least shocked, nor even surprised.\'94 \
\
\'93There is no cause,\'94 was the answer. \'91 Dominus Victor has \
told us no more than I had guessed already.\'94 \
\
Marcia was on the point of replying, when a slave presented \
herself to announce that supper was served in the Hall of \
Chryseis, so called from its being adorned with paintings illus- \
trative of the history of that heroine; and Marcia reserved the \
rest of. her indignation until after supper. \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. 75 \
\
\
Irene took care during that meal, by monopolising the con- \
yersation, and directing it to insignificant subjects, that Victor \
should not resume the discussion. She withdrew to her own \
chamber a little earlier than usual, and lay down on her couch \
in a dissatisfied frame of mind. Irene hated contradiction, and \
Victor, though perfectly courteous in manner, had held his own \
in a very disconcerting way. She fell at length into an uneasy \
slumber, from which, while it was still perfectly dark, she was \
roused by a consciousness that light had suddenly entered her \
room. Irene opened her eyes, and was startled and almost \
frightened by the sight which she saw. \
\
At the side of her bed stood a tall slight figure, dressed in \
pure white, and holding in her left hand a lamp, while with her \
right she shaded the light from the eyes of the slumberer. The \
glow thus fell on her own face and figure ; but before Irene could \
determine whose that thin, pale, grave face was, the voice of her \
visitor startled her again. \'91The apparition spoke not in Greek, \
but in Syriac, and the words were\'97\'93 Sleepest thou so calmly, \
daughter of Berenice ?\'94 \
\
It was nine years since the Lady Irene had heard that lan- \
guage, or had been addressed by that name. Surprise over- \
powered every other feeling, and she could only gasp out\'97 \
* Who are you 2?\'94 \
\
\'93Thou wouldst not have asked that question,\'94 answered the \
visitor, in a low, clear, plaintive voice, \'93nine years ago, when \
Alexander and Berenice dwelt by the sheep-gate in Jerusalem, \
and when Sophronia and Irene wandered hand in hand through \
the valley of Jehoshaphat! But that is all over now.\'94 \
\
A low cry broke from Irene,\'97\'93 Sophronia, sister !\'94 \
\
Sophronia set down the lamp, and kneeling by Irene\'92s bed, \
buried her head in her sister\'92s outstretched arms. For some \
moments both kept silence, and Irene spoke first. \
\
\'93Is it thus I find thee, Sophronia, my sister, my dove? Thus, \
in bondage, while I sit in the purple? But this must be so no \
longer. I will purchase thy freedom, and robe thee with the \
robes of a Grecian maiden. There are changes, great and \
many, Sofia, since thou and I parted at Aleppo nine years ago; \
\
\
76 1HE SLAVE GIRL. OF POMPEI, \
\
\
thou art changed, sweet sister\'97sadder and graver than of old: \
and J, too, am changed, am I not ?\'94 \
\
Irene spoke affectionately, but her last words were uttered in \
atone of ostentation. Sophronia lifted her head, and answered \
in a tremulous voice,\'97 \
\
\'93There are changes, my sister\'97many, and some sad: but \
the change in thee is the saddest change of all!\'94 \
\
\'93The saddest, Sdfia! Nay, surely, thou jestest! Thou didst \
leave me at Aleppo in bonds and poverty ; thou hast found me \
in a palace, the richest lady in Corinth, with an hundred slaves \
at my feet. Is that a change to grieve over?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91Trene, hast thou remembered the dying words of Berenice \
our mother?\'94 \
\
Irene\'92s silence remained unbroken, though she blushed. \
Sophronia continued in a more earnest tone. \
\
\'93 \'93Keep your garments white, my daughters '\'97 were not these \
the last words of Berenice ?\'97\'91and let me behold you in the \
Great Day on the right hand of the King, clad in pure and \
white vestures, emblems of the faith and purity wherein ye shall \
have walked before Him.\'92 Irene, my sister,\'97/a/itha /\'97where is \
the robe of thine innocence, and hath it retained its whiteness?\'94 \
\
The colour flushed yet deeper over Irene\'92s face and neck. \
But the silence remained unbroken. \
\
\'91\'93 Whether thou wert sealed indeed unto salvation, the Lord \
knoweth, and not I,\'94 continued Sophronia. \'93 He only knoweth \
them that are His. Nevertheless, when we parted at Aleppo, in \
thy words and in thine outward walk, thou wert of us. Hast \
thou continued with us\'97hast thou kept the faith? If it had \
been so, could I have heard thee speak such words as thou hast \
spoken this day? \'91Thou speakest, indeed, of riches and costly \
robes ; but where is that robe washed in the holy blood, costlier \
than all other? Hast thou forgotten the words of Solomon the \
King\'97\'91 Better is little with the fear of the Lord, than great \
treasure and trouble therewith?\'92 Alas, my sister! it was better \
for thee in bonds at Aleppo, than in palaces at Corinth! Yea, \
to bring back what thou didst seem outwardly to me that day\'97 \
the Lord only knoweth how thine heart stood toward Him\'97my. \
sister, I would give my blood, mine own life\'97all I can give \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. fi \
\
\
thee now. Alas, alas! what shall I say to thee? what shall I go \
for thee ? how may I be comforted for thee, my poor Irene \
\
Irene had not uttered a word during the whole of Sophronia\'92s \
expostulation. \'91To Victor\'92s reasoning she could oppose reason- \
ing; but what had she to oppose to this unreasoning, tender, \
mournful love, which yearned over her, stray sheep that she was, \
as a mother might yearn over a lost child? But when Soph- \
ronia ceased speaking, and the dead silence of midnight, which \
had been broken only by her voice, closed round them again, \
Irene spoke at.length, in very different tones from before. \
\
\'93My dearest Sofia!\'94 she said tenderly. \'91\'93\'91Thou must not \
grieve in this way over me, my dove! JI am not worthit. I \
know well I was not once thus. Let it pass\'97it has gone by. \
Berenice will meet Sophronia in her snowy robe, and she can \
tell her not to look out for Irene !\'97if there be any other world \
after this\'94\'97she added in a lower tone. \
\
\'93 Dost thou doubt it?\'94 \
\
\'93 At times I do,\'94 replied Irene in a low voice. \
\
\'93Only at times, Irene? Ah! is there no ray of light, how- \
ever faint and dim, within thy soul? Dost thou believe in the \
God of Israel? I ask not thy prudence, thy wisdom, thy \
intellect: I ask it of thy heart.\'94 \
\
\'93Thou art hard on me, Sdfia! But if I must needs reply \
from my soul,\'97I think I do.\'94 \
\
She spoke hesitatingly, as if she scarcely felt sure of her \
own convictions, \
\
\'93And dost thou believe on the Son of God?\'94 \
\
Irene gave no answer. \
\
Sophronia knelt for a moment in the same position, her head \
uplifted, and her eyes unusually bright, gazing earnestly in her \
sister's face: then, as the ominous silence continued, her head \
sank down, and a half-smothered sob caught Irene\'92s ear. \
\
\'93Grieve not for me, my dove!\'94 she said tenderly. \'93If thy \
faith be true, it will avail thee in the end. But for me\'97how \
could I do otherwise? Coriander hates the very name of a \
Christian.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91 Didst thou love him, then, so dearly, that thou gavest thy \
soul for him ?\'94 \
\
\
78 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93Tove him?\'94 answered Irene in a peculiar tone. \'91There \
was not much of that, I think. He bought me in my bonds, \
and set me free, and wedded me\'97made me the mistress of his \
stately mansions and the sharer of his luxury and wealth. [I \
consider myself bound, in common gratitude, to regard his \
wishes, and to secure his comfort to the best of my power. \
But for love\'97nay, Sofia, there was but little of that.\'94 \
\
\'91What was it, then, which my sister Irene loved, better than \
she loved her own soul and the glory of the Lord?\'94 \
\
\'93Can I tell thee, Sdfia, when I scarcely know it myself? \
Perhaps it was power, and grandeur, and luxury\'97ease and \
leisure, liberty and brightness, fair robes, costly gems\'97were \
these worth nothing ?\'94 \
\
*\'93Were they worth the price thou gavest? Were they so \
precious that for them thou shouldst give that precious thing, \
\
\
thy soul? Is there peace, Irene, in thine heart? Say, art thou \
at rest?\'94 \
\
\
Irene shook her head. \
\
\'93Ah, no! Peace is the gift of the Lord Christ alone. How \
canst \'a2/ou have peace, who art wandering on the mountains, a \
lost sheep, far from the fold? Ah, poor lost one, art thou weary \
with thy wandering? \'91Thou who art gone so far, comes there \
\'91never even yet to thine ear the voice of the Shepherd, count- \
ing the flock in the valley below? O not too far\'97not too far, \
beloved, for the Shepherd to seek for thee!\'94 \
\
Sophronia spoke rather incoherently, and her voice was \
broken by sobs ; but Irene comprehended all that she meant. \
She did not answer; she lay still, her arms thrown round her \
sister; and after a pause, Sophronia spoke again. \
\
\'93My poor sister, my own Irene, thou hast sinned deeply\'97 \
only God knoweth how deeply. But I will not give thee up\'97 \
I will not believe that thou hast sinned unto death. And shall \
He love thee less than I, who loveth unto the end them for \
whom He died? When He counteth His flock for the fold \
immortal, shall any one of them be found wanting?\'94 \
\
\'93<The son of perdition !\'92\'94 said Irene under her breath. \
\
\'91Te was never one of the flock;\'94 answered Sophronia \
quickly. \'93And among all those twelve, beloved, and those \
\
\
A NOCTURNAL VISITANT. 79 \
\
\
seventy\'97yea, adding the five hundred who believed by the \
power of the Paraclete\'97we heard but of one who was the son \
of perdition.\'94 \
\
\'93But the\'97\'94 Irene stopped herself. \
\
*\'91 Speak, beloved.\'94 \
\
\'93T was only thinking,\'94 she said in a hopeless tone, \'91that the \
addition of the five hundred made it but the worse for the vze/\'94 \
\
\'93Thou art not that one, Irene.\'94 \
\
** How canst thou know that, Sdfia?\'94 \
\
\'93* Hath not the Lord Christ said, \'91\\Whatsoever ye shall ask \
the Father in My name, He will give it you\'92?\'94 \
\
* Not that !\'94 \
\
*\'a2 \'93Whatsoever\'92!\'94 \
\
\'91There must be exceptions.\'94 \
\
\'93\'a2Whatsoever\'92!\'94 reiterated Sophronia. \'93I will ask Him, \
Irene, who is not willing that any son or daughter of Israel \
should die. I will \'91give Him no rest\'92 till He have heard me; \
and I will plead before Him His own promise\'97His potent \
\'91whatsoever.\'92 Itis His word, not mine. He must have known \
what He said: He must have meant what He said.\'94 \
\
Irene did not answer. \
\
\'91In His hands I leave thee,\'94 added Sophronia. \'91Sleep, \
beloved sister.\'94 \
\
Disengaging herself from Irene\'92s clasp with a parting kiss, \
she took up her lamp, and glided noiselessly from the room. \
\
\
SON PINS yD? a R \
NE Sey e \
\
\
INEZ \
\
\
CHAPTER VIII. \
\
\
FURTHER REVELATIONS, \
\
\
\'93The inward depths of that deceitful fount \
Where many a sin lies sleeping, but not dead.\'94 \
\
\
FAN AMILLA had awoke suddenly, how she knew not, \
E AN with ion that Sophronia had quitted \
Yo with a vague impression that Sophronia had quitte \
OSG) her chamber, and she was left alone. She uttered \
\
\
-her name, and received no reply. It was a close, \
warm night, and Camilla remained awake and restless, until, \
nearly an hour afterwards, she saw a dim light approaching. \
Its bearer extinguished it just before she entered: and only a \
gentle rustling sound, barely audible, warned Sophronia\'92s mis- \
tress of her return. \
\
\'91\'91 Sophronia !\'94 she said, softly. \
\
\'93Domina!\'94 was the response as usual. \
\
\'91\'a2Where have you been all this time ?\'94 \
\
\'93Has the Domina missed me?\'94 answered Sophronia \
evasively. \
\
\'93T have not wanted you, if you mean that; but I discovered \
your absence some time ago.\'94 \
\
Sophronia sat down on her bed, and drew a deep sigh. \
\'91The Domina had better sleep till the morning, before I tell \
my story ; it may be that she will not sleep much after.\'94 \
\
\'93Nay, Sophronia, let me rather hear it at once.\'94 \
\
\'93Remembers the Domina that I told her long since, that \
when Jerusalem our city fell, my sister and I were sold into \
bondage?\'94 \
\
\
FURTHER REVELATIONS. gr \
\
\
\'91\'93 Not many weeks since, Sophronia; but truly it seems more \
like years tome. Yes, I remember. Well?\'94 \
\
\'93 And the Domina asked me, if I knew what had befallen \
my sister? And I said, In no wise.\'94 \
\
\'93You did.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2 Domina, I have found her.\'94 \
\
\'91Found her! In Corinth? Is she among the slaves of \
the Lady Irene?\'94 \
\
\'91She is in this house.\'94 \
\
\'93 Why, Sophronia, what a strange coincidence! What a joy- \
ful meeting you must have had!\'94 \
\
A sigh which was half a sob, broke from Sophronia. \
\
\'93Strange, indeed !\'97stranger than the Domina has guessed \
yet. But alas! our meeting was no joyous one.\'94 \
\
\'93Why, Sophronia? Is your sister ill, or unkindly used? \
Surely the Lady Irene would not use her slaves cruelly ?\'94 \
\
\'93Not ill; not ill-used. Domina, she is no slave. The \
Lord Christ look, in His great mercy, and not from the throne \
of His judgment, on her who hath sold her soul for gold, hath \
bartered for costly robes the life of ages, hath weighed against \
precious stones the precious blood wherewith she was ran- \
somed. The Lord have mercy upon her! Domina, my sister, \
who was sold into slavery with me\'97my sister Irene, the \
daughter of Alexander and Berenice\'97\'94 \
\
*\'91 Sophronia!\'94 cried Camilla, sitting up in her bed. \'93You \
cannot mean\'97you could never dream\'97\'94 \
\
\'93She is your friend, Domina\'97the Lady Irene herself.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91Tmpossible !\'94 \
\
\'93Alas, my mistress! Until this day I trusted that it was not \
so\'97I fought against the conviction which was coming upon me. \
But the ornament of her bracelet, like that I once had myself \
\'97and the knowledge of the faith, which she could not conceal, \
though she tried hard to do so! And this even, resolved to \
know the truth at all cost, and to secure a quiet hour while her \
lord was absent\'97this night I went to her. I spake to her in \
the language which we lisped in our childhood on the hil!s \
of Judza\'97lI called her by her name, and the name of our \
mother, Irene, daughter of Berenice: and though indeed \
\
F \
\
\
82 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
she was. startled, she denied. not her blood. She knew \
me.\'94 \
\
\'93 And how came she hither?\'94 \
\
Sophronia spread out her hands with a despairing gesture. \
\
\'93What know I, or what care I? I asked no such questions. \
What she is, and to what she has come\'97ah me, unhappy! \
Oh, had I found her in the sorest bondage\'97had I found her \
in chains and in prison, for the name of the Lord Christ,\'97 \
\
\'93had I heard of her death by the lions, or in the fire, for His \
sake,\'97verily I had knelt and sung unto His name a psalm of \
thanksgiving, a pean of triumph. But fhis\'97/ \'91 be merciful \
unto her, be merciful unto her, O God, for my soul trusteth in \
Thee, and under the shadow of Thy wings will I make my \
refuge, until this calamity be overpast !\'92\'94 \
\
\'91Unhappy Sophronia!\'94 \
\
\'93Unhappier Irene! Am I unhappy who have Christ, my \
Lord, ever loving me, ever helping me, ever guiding me? But \
she\'97she hath no guide\'97no helper,\'97no love. If riches were \
for mine advantage, He could give them mein aday. But hers \
are of the Evil One, since for them she gave up Christ; and \
if her riches make to themselves wings and fly away, for what \
then, O my sister, wilt thou have bartered thy soul ?\'94 \
\
And Sophronia threw herself on the bed, sobbing violently. \
Camilla attempted to offer no consolation; she felt: that this \
was a sorrow beyond the reach of any comfort from her. She \
only said after a time, when Sophronia\'92s sobs grew a little \
quieter. \
\
\'91Sophronia, shall we pray together for Irene?\'94 \
\
Sophronia looked up. \
\
\'93Together, Domina !\'97and to whom?\'94 \
\
\'93To your God,\'94 said Camilla simply. \
\
\'93Domina! Will you pray to the Lord Christ ?\'94 \
\
\'91| will never pray again to any other.\'94 \
\
Sophronia burst into tears. \
\
\'93OQ my God!\'94 she said amidst her sobs, \'93 wilt Thou give \
me for my hire this beloved soul? But not instead\'97O Father \
not instead of that for which I have asked Thee!\'94 \
\
\'93 Pray thou, Sophronia, for I know not what to say.\'94 \
\
\
FURTHER REVELATIONS. 83 \
\
\
Camilla rose from her bed, and throwing a palla round her, \
in the dim dawn of the autumn morning. the two girls stood \
together, Sophronia praying audibly, Camilla following in \
silence, for the soul of Irene. \
\
When Camilla came the next morning into the peristyle, she \
found that Strophius and Coriander had just returned from the \
city. Irene was not there, nor was Victor; but to her sister's \
surprise, Marcia had already risen, and was standing wrapped \
in a light palla. conversing with Strophius, who at that moment \
was the only occupant of the room beyond herself. The instant \
they perceived Camilla, Marcia quickly turned towards her, \
while Strophius, as if trying to detain her, asked, \'91Then I \
may consider it settled?\'94 \
\
\'93 Certainly,\'94 answered Marcia, advancing to meet her sister. \
**Good-morning, Camilla.\'94 \
\
\'93 Good morning, dear Marcia. I presume you feel better, \
since you have risen so early.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Oh yes, much better now,\'94 replied Marcia, in a hurried \
tone, as if she were afraid of having been overheard, and wished \
to efface the remembrance of it. \'93I think Dionysius\'92 drugs \
have done me good. Where is the Lady Irene ?\'94 \
\
Camilla replied that she did not know, and inwardly wondered \
whether Irene would choose to acknowledge Sophronia in \
public. Victor soon entered, and shortly after him Coriander, \
who, looking round, immediately inquired, \'93Where is my wife ? \
Has she not appeared, ladies? I hope she is not ill.) Irene!\'94 \
and going to the curtain, he called again for her. \
\
\'93In a moment,\'94 responded the voice of Irene from a distant \
apartment. \'91\'91If the young ladies are there, pray excuse me to \
them\'97I will be with you directly.\'94 \
\
Coriander accordingly returned to the sisters, and was doing \
his best to entertain them himself\'97Strophius being absorbed \
by a volume of poetry which he carried at his girdle\'97when, \
in a few minutes, Irene entered. She was not alone. She led \
in by the hand a lady in Grecian costume, but wearing no \
ornaments, whom she presented to the group, saying, \'91\'91 My \
sister, the Lady Sophronia.\'94 \
\
So entirely had the change of costume altered the appearance \
\
\
84 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
of Sophronia, that for a moment even Marcia did not recognise \
her. Camilla of course understood what was passing. \
\
\'91\'93\'91Thy sister, Irene!\'94 said Coriander. \'91I knew not thou \
hadst a sister. Speak, where didst thou find her?\'94 \
\
\'93Camilla!\'94 whispered Marcia to her sister in accents of \
unutterable surprise; \'93is this Sophronia? Your slave-girl \
the Lady Irene\'92s sister ! \'94 \
\
\'93That question,\'94 replied Irene to Coriander, \'93will be best \
answered by the Lady Camilla. I must entreat her pardon for \
depriving her of her attendant, but she has only to name the \
price she requires for my sister, and I will pay it to the last mite.\'94 \
\
Camilla had made sufficient progress in Greek to understand \
the scope of what Irene was saying; while Marcia, in extreme \
curiosity to make out the scene, had turned to Strophius, and \
requested him to act as interpreter. Victor entered at this \
juncture: but, though nobody was sufficiently disengaged to \
notice it, it might have been perceived that his countenance \
exhibited no particular surprise. \
\
\'91Pray say no word about price, Lady Irene,\'94 said Camilla. \
*\'80T give dear Sophronia her freedom with the greatest pleasure, \
only asking that she will never cease to be my friend; and \
perhaps you will kindly allow one of your maidens to give me \
such slight attendance as I require while I have the honour to \
be your guest.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93You will permit me at least to present you with one,\'94 \
answered Irene; while Sophronia turned and offered to kiss \
Camilla\'92s robe. The latter prevented this humiliation by giving \
her an affectionate kiss: and Coriander welcomed his new \
sister-in-law with much cordiality. The anti-Jewish prejudices \
of Marcia seemed to have suddenly and entirely disappeared. \
She had vowed at Pompeii that Sophronia the semi-Jewish \
slave should never touch the hem of her palla ; but to Sophronia \
the Greek lady, whose position had totally changed, she now \
offered her hand with words so flattering that the simple-minded \
Christian girl was sorely puzzled how to account for the alteration. \
\
\'91Vou, too, Domina Marcia?\'94 she said, blushing scarlet. \
\'93 Have you then \
\
But suddenly checking herself she suffered her hand to be \
\
\
FURTHER REVELATIONS. 85 \
\
\
taken, while Marcia entreated her in the most flattering way \
to drop all titles in addressing her for the future. Marcia was \
a worshipper of success. \
\
The last to congratulate the new member of the family was \
Victor. He spoke in his own tongue, and in a very low tone; \
so low, that Coriander could not hear what he said. Irene, \
who stood close by Sophronia, apparently heard, for she \
coloured, and an expression\'97half scorn, half sadness\'97passed \
over her face. \'91The party took their seats, and refreshments \
were served round by Coriander\'92s slaves. Irene then requested \
Camilla to follow her to another apartment, and select from her \
attendant maidens the one whom she best liked, who should \
become her property in the stead of Sophronia. Sophronia \
chose to follow, and Irene, clapping her hands, ordered the \
woman who answered the summons to send in all the maidens \
with the exception of Phyllis and Callirhoe, who were her own \
personal attendants. She meanwhile occupied herself in turn- \
ing over some embroidery patterns; while Sophronia drew \
Camilla a little apart. \
\
** Will the Domina grant me a favour ?\'94 \
\
\'93 Anything you please, Sophronia; but pray call me Domina \
no longer, or I must adopt the title to you also.\'94 \
\
Sophronia smiled her faint melancholy smile, and answered, \
\'91\'93\'91Then, sweet Camilla, if so I may name you,\'97know that \
among Irene\'92s maidens there is one, a young sister in the faith, \
whom I beg you to choose if you feel no other preference. \
It is true that she is very young and inexperienced, but for \
that very cause, and since she is shrinking and timid, I would \
fain see her in your kind care. I know for myself,\'94 she con- \
cluded with a smile, \'93how kind it is.\'94 \
\
Camilla echoed the smile. . \'93 Certainly I will choose her.\'94 \
\
*T thank you. Her name is Euphrosyne.\'94 \
\
The girls had entered the room and were ranging themselves \
round the walls of the atrium at a signal from Irene, who put \
down her designs upon a silver table, and approaching the \
middle of the room, lifted her hand to command silence. \
\
\'93Slaves! you behold in this lady, on whom hitherto you \
have looked as one of yourselves, my own sister, the Lady \
\
\
86 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
Sophronia. Not having met since we were almost children, \
we did not immediately recognise each other. We have now \
done so: henceforth she is one of your master\'92s family. You \
will serve her as myself. But she will select one of you as \
her personal attendant, and I shall present another to the Lady \
Camilla Parata. Be obedient and docile to your new mis- \
tresses, you who may be honoured by the selection.\'97Ladies, \
will you take your choice ?\'94 \
\
\'93Shall I still choose Euphrosyne, or leave her for you?\'94 \
whispered Camilla. \
\
\'91* Will you leave her to me, unless you prefer her ?\'94 answered \
Sophronia in the same tone. \
\
\'93Which is she?\'94 \
\
\'93The young girl nearest the curtain, on the right hand of \
the second pillar.\'94 \
\
Take her first, and then I will choose.\'94 \
\
Sophronia, slightly advancing, made a sign to Euphrosyne, \
who at once knelt and kissed her robe. \
\
\'93May I choose this young girl, sister?\'94 \
\
\'93Choose whom you like best, Sdfia,\'94 was Irene\'92s answer ; \
\'91but from her youth and want of instruction, Euphrosyne is \
among the least valuable of my maidens.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91T should prefer this one, if you will give her to me.\'94 \
\
\'93 Most willingly.\'94 \
\
Camilla was looking round. She did not care fora handsome \
girl, nor a specially accomplished one, but she did wish to secure \
one who had good health and good temper. Most of the faces \
before her did not promise well for the latter. Some looked \
stolid and apathetic, some sullen and discontented, some bold \
and impertinent. At last her eye settled on one who had shrunk \
behind the rest as if ashamed or afraid of being observed, and \
whose downcast, reddened eyes showed some kind of trouble. \
The kind heart of Camilla warmed to her at once. She readily \
made her way through the foremost slaves, who moved aside \
when they saw in what direction she was coming, and went \
up to the shrinking figure half hidden by the porphyry pillar. \
\
\'93What is your name?\'94 she asked in her best Greek. \
\
\'93Penelope, Lady,\'94 was the timid reply. \
\
\'93Would you like to be chosen?\'94 \
\
\
FURTHER REVELATIONS. 37. \
\
\
\'91The sorrowful eyes were lifted to Camilla\'92s pitying face, with \
the strongest of affirmatives in them. Camilla looked back to \
Irene toinquire if her choice would be agreeable, and perceived \
that something had called up a deep blush to Irene\'92s cheek, \
which she held one of her designs in a position to conceal. \
\
\'91\'93\'91Ts Penelope there ?\'94 she saidin arather hardtone. \'91 Take \
whom you please, Lady Camilla: but I wish you joy of your \
choice if you select her. I had occasion a few days ago to \
reprove her for conduct which did not suit me, and she chose \
to be very impertinent. I trust that she may behave better \
to you than she did to me.\'94 \
\
The expression of Irene\'92s face was entirely at variance with \
her words. \'91lhe former betrayed that she felt ashamed of her \
own conduct in the matter, and did not wish her guests to know \
the particulars too closely. Penelope lifted her tearful eyes \
with a look, half pleading, half reproachful, to Irene\'92s face. \
\
\'91\'91 Lady and mistress !\'94 she said in a trembling voice, \'93 indeed, \
indeed I did not mean to be impertinent. I could not do \
as you bade me, and you know the cause thereof.\'94 \
\
\'93Enough, girl, enough,\'94 said Irene hastily, as though afraid \
of her saying more. \'91I dare say the Lady Camilla will be less \
particular with you. See that you serve her well. Are you \
quite satisfied?\'94 she added to Camilla. \'91\'93 Have you deter- \
mined on selecting Penelope?\'94 \
\
\'93Tf you will kindly give me leave,\'94 replied Camilla. \
\
\'91With the greatest pleasure. Slaves, you can go.\'94 \
\
The girls retired, Euphrosyne and Penelope remaining. \
Camilla then, after thanking Irene for her gift, desired her \
new possession to repair to her chamber, where she would \
shortly come to her and instruct her in her requirements 5 \
Sophronia did not dismiss hers, except to request her to fetch \
something for her. When the slaves had both departed, Irene \
excused herself; and on the return of Euphrosyne, Sophronia \
summoned her to come near, and asked her, in a low tone, \
what had been the offence of Penelope. Euphrosyne hesitated, \
as if she did not like to tell; but on Sophronia\'92s encouraging \
her to proceed, she said, very low and rather hurriedly, \
\
\'93Lady, Penelope is of us. The Lady commanded her to \
sacrifice to idols, and she could not\'97you know she could not!\'94 \
\
\
88 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
Sophronia clasped her hands at the base of her throat, with \
a semi-hysteric gesture. \'91\'93 My sister command her to sacrifice ? \
Euphrosyne, are you certain? Might it not have been the \
Lord Coriander ? \'94 \
\
\'93The Lord Coriander takes no account of us maidens. I \
question if he knoweth even our faces or our names. Nay, \
assuredly it was the Lady.\'94 \
\
\'93 Didst thou see and hear it ?\'94 \
\
\'93Yea, Lady. She stood by the altar of Phoebus\'97the Lady \
\'97and she said unto Penelope, \'91\'91 Cast in the incense, vile dog \
of a Christian, orthy God shall not save thee from the torture !\'92 \
And Penelope would not. She trusted in the Lord: and hath \
He not delivered her this day P\'94 \
\
It would be hard to say whether Camilla or Sophronia was \
more shocked by Euphrosyne\'92s simple narrative. \
\
\'93T could not have believed such a thing of the Lady \
Irene!\'94 cried Camilla. \'91But surely the unhappy Penelope \
was not put to the torture? \'94 \
\
\'93Do I know?\'94 answered Euphrosyne evasively. \'91She \
disappeared from among us six days since, and I saw her not \
until now. She had wept, Lady.\'94 \
\
Sophronia dismissed Euphrosyne with a gesture. Her large \
dark eyes, looking larger in their dilated horror, met the eyes \
of Camilla, which were full of tears. \
\
\'93QO Camilla, is it too late? Can this poor lost sheep yet be \
gathered into the fold of the Lord Christ? That is not the \
Irene who twined garlands for my hair on the Mount of Olives ! \
How her soul must have hardened as she has departed from \
the Lord! Oh, what an awful distance must her sin have \
stretched out between Him and her, ere she could have had the \
heart to do this thing! Can this poor sheep, so far strayed, \
indeed be sought, and bound up, and borne home?\'94 \
\
\'93Tt is not surely for me to teach you, dear Sophronia: yet I \
remember that you once told me Paulus the apostle had at one \
time persecuted the Christians.\'94 \
\
_ \'93Thanks, beloved. Itis true, There is hope for my unhappy \
sister. And yet\'97ah, Camilla! he was never a persecutor after \
he had been called a Christian !\'97Lord, \'91Thou knowest all things! \
Hast Thou not died for us all?\'94 \
\
\
CHAPTER IX. \
\
\
PEARLS AND TEARS. \
\
\
**Canst be idle ?\'97canst thou play, \
Foolish soul who sinned to-day?\'94 \
~-GEORGE HERBERT. \
\
\
HAT are your future intentions, Domine? \
\
The speaker was Strophius, and the person \
addressed was Victor. Marcia, Camilla, and Soph- \
ronia were also present. \
\
\'93A question which I was about to ask you,\'94 was the reply. \
\
\'93Well, I mean to go to Rome by the first ship that I can \
hear of, bound in that direction.\'94 \
\
\'91And I hope to settle in Corinth. My good friend Coriander \
has kindly offered to advance me the sum of money which I \
have lost, that I may trade with it, and repay him when I can. \
He offered me, indeed, more: but I cannot accept a greater \
sum than I may reasonably hope soon to refund.\'94 \
\
Strophius shrugged his shoulders, apparently in contempt of \
Victor\'92s scruples. \
\
\'93 And what do the ladies mean to do?\'94 inquired the latter. \
\
Marcia hesitated, and coloured slightly. Camilla, after wait- \
ing a moment for her sister to speak, replied that she had \
scarcely been able to decide on her future course. That she \
must earn her own living in some way was certain; but she was \
ignorant of all arts except those of spinning, embroidering, and \
painting ; the last, indeed, she thought she could do tolerably \
well. . Would Victor kindly give her his advice on the subject ? \
\
\'93Tf you really can paint well, and feel disposed to try paint- \
\
\
9\'b0. THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
ing,\'94 replied he, \'93I think you scarcely could do better. There \
is always room in Corinth for the followers of the arts.\'94 \
\
\'93Thanks for your advice: but I am so unfortunate as to \
have no money.\'94 \
\
\'91Let me ask Coriander to find you some. I am sure he \
would.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T am very much obliged to you ; but\'97\'94 \
\
\'93Will you leave that to me, sweet friend?\'94 said the gentle \
voice of Sophronia. \
\
Camilla smiled, and thanked her. \
\
\'93And Domina Sophronia?\'94 pursued Victor, without looking \
at her. \
\
A faint colour flushed her generally white cheek. \'91\'93 Let the \
Lord dispose of me,\'94 she said, bending down her head. \
\
\'91Marcia, what are you going to do?\'94 said Camilla, turning \
to her sister. \
\
Instead of replying to the question, Marcia rose, saying, \
\'93Come with me, Camilla.\'94 She led the way to her own bed- \
chamber, ordering Flora, who was found there, out of the way, \
and seating herself on the low divan-like couch, motioned \
Camilla to do the same. \
\
\'93You ask my intentions?\'94 said Marcia, playing nervously \
with her bracelet. \'93I may as well tell you at once that Dominus \
S:rophius has made me an offer of marriage.\'94 \
\
Camilla\'92s thoughts, after the first sensation of surprise\'97for \
she had never noticed that Strophius and Marcia appeared to \
have any attraction for each other\'97fled back to that dread \
evening at Pompeii, when Marcia had first seen Strophius, and \
had pronounced him neither tall nor handsome, and not at all \
her idea of an author. \
\
\'91\'91Why, Marcia, how long have you known him?\'94 was her \
answer. \
\
\'93Not long, certainly,\'94 said Marcia, continuing to clasp and \
unclasp the bracelet ; \'91 but one comes to know people quickly \
in such circumstances as these : and\'97well, we must live some- \
how, and I\'97I think it is much better to have a husband to \
work for you, than be obliged to work for yourself. I dan\'91t \
\
\
Camilla was therefore greatly relieved when she heard the sweet low \
voice of Sophronia in the'ante-chamber, and a moment afterwards \
the curtain was drawn aside, and she appeared.\'97 Page 95. \
\
\
92 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
4 \
\
\
like work at any time; and people look down so on a woman \
who works !\'94 \
\
Camilla\'92s ideas on the subject of work, and yet more of matri- \
mony, were so entirely different from these, that almost before \
she knew it, she had come bluntly out with\'97 \
\
\'93 That depends on the husband.\'94 \
\
\'93Any husband is better than none!\'94 said Marcia sharply. \
* And what have you to say against him, pray?\'94 \
\
\'abCQ Marcia!\'94 was Camilla\'92s answer to the first sentiment in \
her sister\'92s speech. \'91Then she added, to the question,\'97\'91 Oh ! \
nothing\'97nothing, so far as you are concerned. He is not the \
man whom I should have married, that is all. \'94 \
\
\'91Well, I am not asking you to marry him!\'94 retorted Marcia. \
\
\'93 Any arrangement which secures your happiness and com- \
fort, dear Marcia, will be welcome to me. Then I suppose you \
think of going with him to Rome ?\'94 \
\
Yes, I suppose I shall. Indeed, I should not like to live \
in Corinth. One would have to learn Greek, and their manners \
are so different from ours.\'94 \
\
\'93T do not object to either of those,\'94 said Camilla, and I must \
confess I should not like to leave Corinth.\'94 \
\
Had Camilla confessed the real truth, it would have taken the \
shape of \'93I should not like to leave Sophronia.\'94 \
\
\'93Please yourself about that,\'94 said Marcia very uncon- \
cernedly. \'91\'91I must say I think you would do much better if \
you came with us to Rome. Nobody knows you here.\'94 \
\
\'91* And who knows me at Rome?\'94 \
\
\'93Well, you might get friends there sooner than here; and I \
should think you would find it easier to marry.\'94 \
\
Camilla fairly laughed. \'93Do you want everybody else to \
marry as well as yourself?\'94 she said. \'93Thank you, I am in no \
hurry about that. J am much more anxious to secure cus- \
tomers for my paintings.\'94 \
\
\'93I dare say you may do that better here,\'94 coolly responded \
Marcia. \'93Shall we go down?\'94 \
\
When Camilla came to think over her prospects\'97which \
she did that night instead of going to sleep\'97she felt that they \
Were not encouraging, \
\
\
PEARLS AND TEARS. 93 \
\
\
She well knew that she could not expect the company of \
Sophronia in her new home ; and how could she make any new \
home for herself? Fora young unmarried woman to live alone \
was scarcely consonant with Roman ideas of propriety, and \
Camilla shrewdly guessed that with Greek ones it would be even \
more incompatible. And apart from that, how was she to sell \
her paintings, without either father or brother to face the world \
on her behalf? The notion of marrying for a home was utterly \
repugnant to her: and had this not been the case, nobody \
wanted to marry her. What could she do but resign her vision \
of painting and Corinth, and go to Rome with Marcia and \
Strophius? Yet that involved giving up Sophronia: and sud- \
denly another thought struck cold on Camilla\'92s heart. It in- \
volved also giving up Christ. She would hear no more of that \
story of Jesus and the resurrection, which alone had ever brought \
hope and peace to her soul. And words came to her which she \
had heard from Sophronia,\'97\'93 He that loveth father or mother \
more than Me is not worthy of Me.\'94 Yet how could she decide \
to stay in Corinth? The matter seemed taken out of her hands. \
\
Penelope was fast asleep on the couch beside her. Camilla \
sat up in the bed, and, her heart beating fast at the strange new \
thing she was doing, spoke to this unknown God. \
\
\'93Lord Christ!\'94 she said. \'91If J address Thee not rightly, \
I-humbly deprecate Thy wrath, for I am but an ignorant Latin \
maiden, and I know not properly by what ceremonies Thou \
requirest to be propitiated. But I have heard that Thou art a \
great God, and that Thou wilt have compassion upon men. If \
this be true, grant me Thy favour; andI pray Thee so to order \
the course of my destiny, so far as Thou hast power over it, \
that I may be able to remain in Corinth, and to hear more about \
Thee. I desire to be one of Thy votaries, if Thou wilt accept \
of me, and if I can learn how to obtain merit in Thy sight. If I \
go to dwell in Rome, this will be impossible tome. Grant, there- \
tore, I entreat Thee, that I may remain in Corinth. Andif Thou \
wilt do this, then I shall know that Thou hearest prayer.\'94 \
\
Camilla felt instinctively, as she lay down again, that Soph- \
ronia would have used very different words: but then Sophronia \
could have been bringing her petitions to a Friend, and she \
\
\
94 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
was speaking to a Stranger. Until she came to pray, she had \
imagined that she knew a good deal about this new religion. \
But now, ina moment, all her knowledge appeared to desert \
her. It was no longer a question of acquaintance with doctrines \
or opinions: she came face to face with a Person, and she was \
doubtful of His disposition towards her. He did not know \
her, and Sophronia was not there to speak for her! \
\
Camilla lay awake for a short time longer, but she meditated \
no further upon her own prospects. Her thoughts were occu- \
pied with this fresh venture which she had made\'97with this \
new Divinity into whose hands she had put her cause. She \
did not recognise as yet that there was no God but Him. He \
was to her the God of the Jews, and also One who, as some \
thought, entertained some kindly feelings towards Gentiles. \
But whether the particular Gentile maiden who had taken the \
liberty of requesting His help that night would have any chance \
of obtaining it\'97that was a doubtful point, and a mystery of \
the future. \
\
Not quite fifty years before, a Voice had said in the courts \
of the Temple of Jerusalem, \'93If any man thirst, let him come \
unto Me, and drink,\'94 and, \'93TI, if I be lifted up from the earth, \
will draw all men unto Me.\'94 And this night at Corinth came \
that Roman girl, trembling at her own act, to see if the \
perennial Fountain had any water to spare for her parched lips, \
and whether He who had been lifted up on the cross of shame \
was willing to-receive her. Very ignorantly she offered her \
request\'97as ignorantly as he who prefaced his with \'93if Thou \
canst do anything \'94\'97and he was not sent empty away. \
\
Camilla slept so late, after her restless night, that Penelope \
was seriously concerned about her lady\'92s somnolence in the \
morning. At length, after much waiting and uneasy reflection, \
the slave dexterously contrived to throw down the brazen \
mirror, the noise of whose fall made Camilla start up in dis- \
may, to see Penelope, with eyes lowered and hands crossed on \
her bosom, deprecating her anger. \
\
\'93Ts it late, Penelope?\'94 she asked in ungrammatical Greek. \
* Have I slept too long?\'94 \
\
\
\'93The gracious Lady has slept until a late hour,\'94 answered \
\
\
PEARLS AND TEARS. 95 \
\
\
Penelope, whose servility was in marked contrast to the quiet \
dignity which had always characterised Sophronia. \
\
Camilla hastily left her bed and began to dress, with an \
uneasy mind, which had two inspiring causes. The lateness \
of the hour was the smaller of these. The other was a religious \
difficulty. Her prayer in the night had been altogether so \
strange an experience, that the minor items connected with it \
had not much concerned her; and now, accustomed as she was \
to the idea of gods whose favour the slightest neglect of ritual \
observance would forfeit, she was troubled to remember that \
she had not risen and knelt before offering her prayer\'97that \
she might thus have brought a curse upon herself, and nota \
blessing. Sophronia must be consulted on this point as soon \
as possible, and asked what kind of propitiation would be \
necessary to appease the offended Deity. Camilla was there- \
fore greatly relieved when, while she was still dressing her \
hair, she heard the sweet low voice of Sophronia in the ante- \
chamber, and a moment afterwards the curtain was drawn \
aside, and she appeared. \
\
\'93The Lord keep thee, sweet Camilla!\'94 was her greeting. \
\
\'91\'a2] have so much to say to thee, dear Sophronia,\'94 answered \
Camilla, eager to ascertain the truth on the point that troub!ed \
her mind, and speaking in Latin, that Penelope migiit not \
understand her. \'91Tell me, first, whether I have committed a \
trespass against your religion? I desired to obtain favour of \
the Lord Christ, whom you worship, and I prayed to Him in \
the night: but I was thinking so much of what I had to say \
that I omitted to rise and kneel; I only satup in bed. Will He \
be very angry, and what must I offer to obtain forgiveness?\'94 \
\
Sophronia smiled. \'93 Dear Camilla, He will not be angry \
at all, \'91Man looketh.on the outward appearance, but the \
Lord looketh on the heart.\'92 It is well, doubtless, that the \
body also should be bowed in reverence before Him who hath \
made heaven and earth: but if there be an omission of this, \
whether from physical incapacity or from preoccupation of \
mind, He who healed the paralytic brought on his bed will \
not refuse thee a hearing. Surely it were better to pray and \
not kneel, than to kneel and not pray :\'94 \
\
\
96 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93Then I need not offer any sacrifice ?\'94 \
\
\'91What sacrifice canst thou offer? He is the Sacrifice, offered \
once for all, never to be repeated any more. \'91For by one \
offering He hath perfected in perpetuity the hallowed ones,\'92\'94 \
\
\'91Do I not, then, even need that thou shouldst intercede for \
me ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91We may all pray one for another. But thou canst not \
want an intercessor with Christ the Advocate.\'94 \
\
\'93That is all right, then, and my mind is relieved. And \
now, Sophronia, I have something to tell thee. Art thou pre- \
pared for a surprise ?\'94 \
\
Sophronia, seating herself on the couch, intimated her \
readiness to be surprised. \
\
\'91\'91 My sister tells me\'97canst thou guess what?\'94 \
\
\'93That she is about to marry Dominus Strophius,\'94 replied \
Sophronia, smiling, and not looking surprised at ail. \
\
\'91\'93Why, Sophronia !\'97who told thee ?\'94 \
\
\'93I guessed that some days ago.\'94 \
\
\'93 Thou art a better guesser than I,\'94 returned Camilla, bind- \
ing up the last plait. \
\
\'91Perhaps I could tell thee sometiing else which thou hast \
not guessed.\'94 \
\
Camilla looked a query. \
\
\'91Suppose I were to say the same thing of myself?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Art thou going to marry? Oh, I know\'97it is Dominus \
Victor. I can guess things sometimes, thou seest. Dear \
Sophronia, I am glad for thee; I think thou wilt be happy.\'94 \
\
Sophronia blushed and smiled an affirmative to the guess. \
\
\'93Thou knowest,\'94 she said, \'91I could not have continued to \
dwell with Irene and Coriander, seeing they are not of the \
faith. But I saw not the path clear before me; I had much \
searching of heart, and I laid the matter many times before the \
Lord. \'91lherefore\'97partly\'97I was rejoiced when Coriander told \
me yesterday that Victor had spoken to him, and my way was \
at once made plain. And now, sweet Camilla, I am come to \
ask a kindness at thy hands.\'94 \
\
\'93Take it, dear Sophronia. Wouldst thou have me broider \
thy bridal robe?\'94 \
\
\
PEARLS AND TEARS. 97 \
\
\
\'93 No, truly. I would have thee come and dwell with me.\'94 \
\
\'93Dearest, I should be terribly in the way!\'94 \
\
\'91Not in the least.. Grant me the boon I ask.\'94 \
\
The news of the engagement between Victor and Sophronia \
was received with great satisfaction by all persons concerned \
but one. The dissentient was Irene. She had set her heart \
upon marrying Sophronia to some far grander and wealthier \
man than Victor, and was both disappointed and annoyed. \
For a few hours, therefore, she was cross and argumentative ; \
but finding that she could not shake Sophronia\'92s resolve, she \
soon laid aside her opposition, accepted the fact, and entered \
into the scheme as ardently as she had previously opposed it. \
Coriander had some house property in Corinth, and he offered \
one of his best houses as his wedding gift. Irene was ready \
to load Sophronia with gems and gold from her stores, had not \
the offer been firmly though lovingly refused. She came into \
the peristyle with her hands full of glittering things\'97elastic \
golden armlets, rich fibulze, gold and silver chains, pearl neck- \
laces, golden girdle-clasps, and other trinkets,\'97followed by two \
slaves, burdened like herself with jewellery. Irene threw them \
down on one of the soft mattresses in the recesses of the \
chamber, and then, seating herself on the corner of the mat- \
tress, said lightly, \'97 \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Now, Sdfia, come and choose.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2Choose what, Irene?\'94 asked Sophronia, lifting her eyes \
from the embroidery on which she was occupied at the other \
end of the peristyle. \
\
\'91\'a2 Whatever thou wilt of these,\'94 said Irene, pulling out of the \
rich heap a jewelled fan, and calling to Callirhoe to come and \
fan her. \
\
Sophronia rose and came to her sister. Casting her quiet \
eyes over the magnificent articles which lay in splendid con- \
fusion on the Thessalonian mattress, she simply said, \'97 \
\
\'93My dear Irene! what could Ido with these?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Wear them, of course,\'94 replied Irene, whose own attire indi- \
cated that she practised as well as taught. \'93Thou wouldst look \
lovely in that pearl necklace, and these golden armlets are the \
\
\
very thing for thee. Are they not, Camilla? Come and look.\'94 \
G \
\
\
98 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
Camilla admired them greatly, and quite agreed with Irene, \
Sophronia had taken into her hand one of the costly golden \
armlets, and was softly feeling the weight and elasticity of the \
gold. At length she said,\'97 \
\
\'91\'a2 What is the value of this, Sister?\'94 \
\
Really, I don\'92t know,\'94 answered Irene carelessly. \'93 Forty \
or fifty minze, I dare say\'97sixty, perhaps. I have not an idea.\'94 \
\
\'93Sixty minz!\'94 repeated Sophronia gravely. \'91And I was \
sold to the Domina Aurelia for about seven, and to Calphurnius \
the slave-dealer, when no man would buy us, for not so much \
as one. And\'97\'94 she added, drooping her head lower over the \
gold, \'91for thirty poor drachmee, my sister, \'93Ye was sold to the \
priests and the elders. Is the disciple so much above the Lord ? \
Nay, truly, my sister, I am worth less than this, Take them \
back, I pray thee, with much love for thy good will.\'94 \
\
Camilla watched Irene\'92s face as Sophronia was speaking. \
She had blushed painfully when her sister alluded to her former \
low condition, and had apparently felt that she was thus un- \
pleasantly reminded of her own. But as soon as Sophronia \
uttered the words \'93thirty drachme,\'94 Irene, as if she knew what \
was. coming, testily bade the slave cease fanning her, and began \
to busy herself with some of the trinkets on the mattress, as if \
to give herself an opportunity to hide her face. \
\
\'91\'91Here, maids,\'94 said Irene, when Sophronia ceased, speak- \
ing quickly as if she were anxious to banish some disagreeable \
recollection, \'91\'91carry back the gems to the closet. The Lady \
Sophronia will not have these. I will see that\'92she has others \
and finer ones. And, ladies,\'94 she pursued, drowning her sister\'92s \
attempt to remonstrate, \'93I must ask your kind pardon. Cori- \
ander always demands my attendance at this time.\'94 \
\
And Irene quickly disappeared, the entrance of Victor \
immediately following her retreat. Camilla tried in vain to \
call to mind a single previous occasion on which Coriander \
had summoned Irene at the hour in question. \
\
\'91Unhappy sister !\'94 said Sophronia with a faltering voice, as \
she saw Irene vanish from sight. \'91Is the Lord striving with \
her? J know, I know she has not forgotten the teaching of \
our mother in the true way. Poor blind sheep, lost upon the \
\
\
PEARLS AND TEARS. 99 \
\
\
mountains, knowing that every step takes her further from the \
fold, yet never turning to go back! Nay, how can she go back ? \
We can but plead with the Shepherd to go and search for her.\'94 \
\
\'93And the Shepherd has told us,\'94 said Victor, *\'91that if we \
ask, it shall be given. \'91He goeth after that which was lost, \
until He find it.\'92\'94 \
\
\'93Aye: and yet, the last time that ever my mother beheld \
James the Bishop, our J.ord\'92s brother, she heard him speak \
words to the disciples, whereof she told me, and one sentence \
thereof burned into my soul, and remained with me unto this \
day. \'91There is a sin which hath never forgiveness. \'92\'94 \
\
Her voice sank to an awed whisper. \
\
\'91But do you know that this is the sin, dear Sophronia? \'94 \
\
\'93Thanks, Camilla. No, I do not know. What that sin is, \
is in the counsel of God, and maybe in the conscience and \
the soul of him who sinneth it.\'94 \
\
* And so long as we do not know, have we not warrant for \
prayer?\'94 asked Victor. \
\
\'93\'93Yes, I think so,\'94 said Sophronia thoughtfully. \'91The \
Lord\'92s ear is not heavy that it cannot hear; nor His arm \
shortened, that it cannot save.\'94 O how many times have I \
prayed Him to save that poor soul, even though it be by the \
whirlwind and the fire !\'94 \
\
\'93 Sophronia, you began once to tell me your history, and you \
never finished it.\'94 \
\
\'93I know, beloved. Wouldst thou hear the rest?\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2 Tf it would not pain you to tell it.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Not in the least. It is well for us to look back at times \
over all the way which the -Lord hath led us through the \
wilderness. I am not sure that I remember precisely where I \
broke off, but I think I was telling thee of the attendance of my \
father upon the preaching of Paulus the Apostle of the I-ord, \
who was put to death by Nero Ceesar some twelve or thirteen \
years ago.\'94 \
\
\
ge og oN. \
Coro A i i, \
\
\
c \
\
\
CHAPTER. %, \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. \
\
\
\'91* For when the heart of man shuts out, \
Straightway the heart of God takes in.\'94 \
\'97JameES RusseELt Lowe Lt. \
\
\
ROT once only, but many times, did my father go to \
< hear the words of Paulus. He did not become a \
Y disciple, even in heart, until a long while had elapsed: \
for the words of the Apostle were strange to him, \
and his heart rebelled against them. Moreover, being a Jew, \
the old dispensation was very dear to his heart, and he was loth \
to believe that the coming of the Saviour could put an end to \
the rites and ceremonies of the law given by Moses. Long \
and closely he pondered over these things. When he returned \
to Jerusalem, he talked them over with a few friends whom \
he could safely trust; and my mother had her part therein, \
for my father set a value on her judgment beyond what men \
commonly doto women. But I believe she was even longer in \
receiving the truth than he. It was not until I was a maiden \
of twelve years that my parents dared to confess the Christ, \
and with their children received the washing of water at the \
hands of the Bishop. And that was not till the city had entered \
into sore tumult and suffering. Ah, sweet sister! how little \
canst thou picture the misery of that dreadful siege, whereof the \
Lord said that then should be great tribulation, such as was \
not from the beginning of the age, nor ever should be again! \
Sophronia paused, and buried her face in her hands with-a \
shudder. \
\'93 T remember little of it,\'92 she continued. \'93I was buta maid \
of thirteen years when it terminated, and the recollection is to \
me as the recollection of a frightful dream. But I cannot but \
\
\
@ | \
\
\
NN \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. 101 \
\
\
remember how day after day, the food and water grew more and \
more scarce and coarse, and Irene and I wondered much to see \
it. Fora time we bore it in silence, but at length we spake to \
our mother. But when she heard us she wept, and said, \'91 Alas, \
my daughters! even the chief women of our nation have but \
scant and poor food now! Ye must bear it in peace, maidens, for \
there is no better to give you.\'94 \'97Then my two younger brethren \
died one by one\'97-they were sweet little children of two and \
five years\'97and we feared that Irene would die, for she grew \
thin and white, and seemed as if she hungered not, even with \
so little to eat.\'97Would it have been better if she Aad died ? \
The Lord knoweth, and I know nought.\'97And then, after that \
weary season, I marked all at once, with wonder and pain, how \
ill my mother was ; how white and worn her face seemed, and \
how weak she grew day by day. Oh, what a sore time that was ! \
Bid me not speak more in detail\'97she died, sweet friends, died \
of sheer want and sorrow, and that which shall rise of her at \
the last day we laid in the garden below the terrace of our \
house. Then, soon after, the end came.\'94 \
\
Camilla noticed the noiseless entrance of Irene, but Soph- \
ronia, who sat with her back to the curtain, did not seem aware \
of it. She continued in the same low, sad tone. \
\
\'93The end came at last. Our glorious Temple, our holy and \
beautiful House, where our fathers worshipped \'97whose marble \
floors had been trodden by the blessed feet of the Son of God \
Himself\'97was given up to the spoiler. The Roman soldiers \
poured in by legions, and defiled the Holy Place. They set up \
their idolatrous standards even in the very Sanctuary itself\'97the \
earthly dwelling-place of the Most High, whereinto once every \
year only the High Priest could enter, and he not without \
blood. And the Lord looked on, and beheld it, and He made \
not bare His arm, and His sword lay silent in its sheath. We \
had sinned, we had sinned! That night the Temple fell \
beneath the flames, and the fearful carnage and spoiling was \
begun which left of the City of God not one stone upon another. \
On that night our father died in the slaughter\'97he sleepeth in \
peace, and shall arise when the Voice of the Son of God shall \
call His own\'97and my sister and I were bound, with many \
\
\
102 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
other youths and maidens of the city, and carried by our con- \
querors far away. I dare say many would think we suffered \
sorely in the journey. Indeed we walked a long and weary way, \
often footsore, and hungered, and athirst: but truly it seemed \
to me as if I had suffered all there was to suffer ere that journey- \
ing began. There was nothing to leave\'97they were all gone \
already\'97father, mother, brothers, and home\'97nothing to be left \
except Irene, and there was yet a possibility that we might be \
sold together. I had already borne the sorrows of my nation\'97 \
the slaughter of my kinsfolk, the bitter pain of the awful sight \
of those terrible red flames which curled and wreathed them- \
selves around the marble pillars of the Temple, and lit up the \
glorious House within. Alas! that day!\'94 \
\
She ceased for a moment. \
\
\'93Our captors led us out of the city. There were above two \
thousand of us, youths and maidens, all bound together by \
ropes. Such clothing we had as was upon us when we were \
taken, and such valuables and relics of our homes as we had \
snatched up from the pillage, and hidden in our bosoms. For. \
me, J had nought but a few loaves af our Jewish bread, which \
I concealed in my robe; and a roll of the writings of Matthew \
the Apostle of the Lord, which also I carried in the folds of my \
raiment. Moreover, I had a small token of silver-work, shaped \
like a fish, which is the symbol of our Christian faith; but \
this was discovered after a time, and taken from me by my \
owner. We were poorly fed, for what was the use of feeding \
slaves who were only to be sold for a few oboli, further than just \
to keep lifein them? Our captors marched us down to Aleppo. \
\'91There we were parted into companies, and such of us as were \
thought comely by the slave-dealers were better lodged and \
well fed for a few weeks. The rest of us were allowed to feed \
as before. What did it matter if we looked like skeletons? \
My sister was one of the favoured ones. The dealer who pur- \
chased me from the Roman captor looked on me for a short \
season as if he could not decide where to place me. Then he \
asked me if I played the cittern or the harp? I said I had no \
skill in music. He demanded if I could speak Latin\'97he him- \
self was a Greek\'97and I answered that I could do so passably. \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. 103 \
\
\
Then he desired to know if I could dress hair, or paint the face ; \
and I said I knew nothing of these arts. Then he said, \'91 Alas, \
maid! what must I do with thee? Thou-wilt fetch little \
money.\'92 And he sent me down unto the less \'91worthy. So that \
night I was parted away from Irene my sister. They gave us \
but scant time for our farewells: and I grieved sorely at the \
leaving of her, for she was not twelve years old. We held each \
other in our arms, and both wept: and the last words that I \
said were\'97for I feared we should never meet face to face again \
\'97\'91 God keep thee, sweet Irene, and the Saviour love thee, and \
the Paraclete comfort thee: and whatsoever thou mayest lose \
or mayest forget, mayest thou never lose nor forget Him! \
Keep thy garments white, and trust thou in the Holy One, who \
is the sure Refuge of Jacob.\'92 And then they parted us asunder. \
We were all parted and carried far away\'97\'91 such as were for \
death, to death; and such as were for the captivity, to the \
captivity ;\'92 and such as were for the apostacy, and the lake that \
drieth not, and the worm that dieth no more 7 \
\
Sophronia's voice failed her, and she covered her face with \
her robe and sobbed. \
\
All the time that Sophronia continued speaking, Camilla had \
stealthily watched the changing features of Irene. She sat \
in a recess of the peristyle, behind one of the pillars, which \
she apparently trusted would hide her from all eyes, since she \
did not attempt on this occasion to disguise her feelings as \
usual. She had moved uneasily in her seat while Sophronia was \
recounting the story of the Fall of Jerusalem; but when she \
went on to narrate the parting with herself, Irene\'92s head was \
bowed down upon her knees, and her face hidden from view in \
the folds of her rich robes. The moment that Sophronia ended \
her tale, and covered her own face, Irene rose, and slipped out \
of sight behind the curtains of the chamber. \
\
\'93Ah, Lady Irene!\'94 said Victor, who had been watching her \
along with Camilla. \'91She is not lost to feeling, my sister.\'94 \
\
* How know you that ?\'94 asked Sophronia, lifting her head. \
\
\'91\'91She was here, Sophronia, though thou sawest her not,\'94 \
explained Camilla. \
\
\'93She heard me?\'94 \
\
\
104. THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93She heard thee, and hid her face when thou wast telling \
the tale of your parting.\'94 \
\
So did she,\'97yea, and wept too,\'97a few days since, when [ \
spake to her in the night-season: and yet since that she hath \
shown no sign. What matter tears, if there be no repentance?\'94 \
\
\'93The winter breaks not into spring in one day,\'94 said Victor \
quietly. \'93'The Lord may be working in her soul, my sister, a \
work which you see not.\'94 \
\
\'93It may be thus, my brother, and I have spoken foolishly. \
The Lord perfect that which concerneth her !\'94 \
\
Irene did not reappear that day until all her guests were \
assembled. Then she came in looking completely uncon- \
cerned; brilliant and animated as was her wont, and joined in \
lively converse with Marcia and Strophius. Sophronia\'92s heart \
sank once more, but Camilla, who thought that much of Irene\'92s \
gaiety was assumed, bade her yet be of good cheer. \
\
The preparations for the double wedding went on with vigour. \
Sophronia declined Irene\'92s offer of jewels, much to the dis- \
appointment of the latter ; but she accepted at her sister\'92s hands \
plain robes and household linen, merely stipulating that no \
bullion nor gems should be used: and Irene indemnified her- \
self by making up in quantity what was wanting in quality. \
Marcia\'92s preparations were far more splendid. She laid in \
robes by the dozen, and jewels by the score. Irene was de. \
lighted to furnish both, and gave herself up with double zest to \
the task of adorning Marcia, when she found that Sophronia \
refused her charming. She set her slaves to work the most \
elaborate embroidery upon the finest tissues, and such garments \
were the result of their labours as were possessed by few ladies \
even in luxurious Corinth. Marcia secretly congratulated her- \
self on the sensation which her costly Grecian costume would \
produce in Rome, where Greek art was at a premium. \
\
Scarfs of gold tissue were sent for to Elis, and Irene procured \
a large number of rich works from Athens to deck her Roman \
friend. As to ornaments, Marcia had only to choose the pattern \
of her armlets and fibule, and ingots of pure gold from the \
stores of Coriander\'92s almost fabulous wealth, were sent to the \
first goldsmiths in the city for their manufacture. \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. 105 \
\
\
Sophronia looked calmly on, neither envying nor much ad- \
miring. In common with the early Christians, she considered \
gems and gold as mere foolish trinkets, and the wearer of them \
vain and childish, They were the mark of a heathen; and what \
was even worse, in many-cities, and in Greece pantianlariy, they \
were the sign of a woman of evil reputation. It was not there- \
fore likely that a modest Christian lady would wish to array her- \
self in articles of such a nature. To Marcia all this was different; \
a heathen she was already ; and her Roman eyes saw nothing \
objectionable in any amount of ornament. Even in Greece, too, \
ladies who did not care what was said about them wore gold and \
jewels freely, as did Irene herself. Camilla had laid hers aside, \
on a hint from Sophronia as to how they would be regarded. \
\
Up to this time, Coriander had received no information con- \
cerning the religion of Victor and Sophronia. Now he must \
necessarily be told the truth. The parties concerned had. \
indeed no intention of concealing the fact, and would have told \
him long before, had not Irene entreated that they would allow. \
it to remain asecret. Irene well knew that to induce Sophronia \
to be married by a heathen priest was a sheer impossibility : on \
the wedding-day, therefore, at the latest. Coriander must know. \
\
Marcia and Strophius were the first married. The bride pre- \
pared herself for the ceremony by a warm bath, a scenting of \
her person from head to foot, and a marvellous dressing of her \
hair by Irene\'92s slaves, who wreathed strings of pearl among the \
plaits, and fastened them with Athenian hairpins of gold, sur- \
mounted with golden grasshoppers. Her head was finally \
crowned with a garland of fresh roses. She wore an amber- \
coloured tunic richly embroidered, a blue peplos ornamented \
with silver, shoes encrusted with gems, elastic armlets of pure \
gold, additional bracelets of rubies and Oriental torquoises, a \
superb necklace of ruby and pearl, a golden fibula, and ear-rings \
of the same precious metal. From her girdle, lavishly decorated \
with gold and valuable stones, hung a small silver mirror, an \
ivory tablet with its golden stylus, and an amber ball, used for \
cooling purposes. Her cheeks were delicately painted with red \
lead, and gold dust had been sprinkled on her hair. \
\
Thus accoutred, the bridal party set out for the temple of \
\
\
106 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
Aphrodite, the bride being borne in a litter, and accompanied \
by Camilla. Irene occupied another litter, but Strophius and \
Coriander chose to walk. After the ceremony they returned \
home in the same manner, excepting that the newly-married \
pair occupied one litter, and Irene and Camilla the other. \
\
Coriander held a magnificent feast on the occasion of the \
wedding. The festivities lasted three days; Strophius and \
Marcia calling each other Dominus and Domina, and behay- \
ing to one another with the most polite indifference. At the \
close of the third day they quitted Corinth, in a vessel which \
proposed to winter at Rome. \
\
*\'91 Fare thee well, my sister,\'94 said Marcia as she took leave of \
Camilla. \'91I trust thou wilt come ere long to visit us at Rome: \
and meanwhile I wish thee a happy residence in this abominable \
country, when one can\'92t understand a word they say, and where \
they think it scandalous behaviour in a woman to let anybody \
see the tip of her nose: and mayest thou enjoy a lucrative pur- \
suit of art, and find a rich husband, and all the blessings where- \
with the gods can furnish thee!\'94 \
\
\'93 Farewell, dear Marcia. I wish thee a safe journey, and all \
happiness.\'94 \
\
Marcia then\'97by proxy, for she had never been persuaded to \
learn Greek\'97took a very flattering leave of Irene and Cori- \
ander, a much cooler one of Victor and Sophronia, and set out \
on her journey. Camilla, under the escort of Victor, accom- \
panied her to the shore; and when Strophius, Marcia, and \
Flora, had embarked, the east wind, which was blowing strongly, \
bore them away, and Camilla saw them no more. \
\
About a fortnight after the departure of Marcia, the day \
arrived which had been fixed for Sophronia\'92s marriage. The \
latter had begged Irene to inform Coriander of her religion and \
that of Victor; but Irene replied very decidedly, that the wed- \
ding morning was quite soon enough to tell her husband. She \
evidently dreaded his anger, and expected it. \
\
On the day appointed, the family assembled in the Hall of \
Chryseis :\'97Irene, splendidly dressed, but looking very white \
and excited; Camilla, also, richly attired, but without orna- \
ments; Corlander, and Victor. They waited a few minutes for \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. 107 \
\
\
the bride, Coriander going out meanwhile to see that the litters \
were ready. It had been arranged that Victor and Sophronia, \
with Camilla, should take immediate possession of their new \
house. The few minutes spent before the arrival of Sophronia. \
were exceedingly painful to all but Coriander. She came at last, \
robed in pure white, and with no decoration beyond the em- \
broidery on her robes, and one white rose in her hair. IJm- \
mediately on her entrance, Coriander turned to her to say\'97 \
\
\'93TI have waited thy coming, fair sister, that thou mightest \
tell me to which Temple I should order the litters, whether to. \
that of the Cyprian Goddess, or of Aphrodite the Ocean-born. \
Victor would not tell me, and bade me ask thyself.\'94 \
\
Sophronia advanced a few steps, till she rested her hand \
upon the table. A faint flush rose to her cheek, and she said \
in a voice which was not perfectly steady, \'93It is time, my \
brother, that thou shouldst know the truth, which I would will- \
ingly have told thee earlier. I can plight my faith in no fane \
wherein that worshipped is silver and gold, the work of men\'92s \
hands. I am a worshipper of Him who is from the beginning, \
of the Living One, the Conqueror of Death, the Eternal.\'94 \
\
* What meanest thou?\'94 interrupted Coriander in great per- \
plexity. \'91I know not of any God to whom such titles can \
apply, excepting Zeus the Olympian,\'97and in his temples it is \
not the custom to celebrate marriages.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91I know, my brother, of One to whom they apply far better \
and more truly,\'97the Lord God and His Son Jesus Christ.\'94 \
\
\'93Sophronia! Irene!\'94 exclaimed Coriander in indignant \
horror. \'91Can I have heard rightly? Surely, surely, Irene, \
thou knewest not of this!\'94 \
\
Victor and Camilla looked at Irene in extreme curiosity to \
see how she would reply to the appeal of her husband. To \
their astonishment, she turned her head towards them, and \
answered, with well-simulated surprise\'97 \
\
\'93T assure my lord that I am equally amazed with himself.\'94 \
\
\'93TI thought so!\'94 exclaimed Coriander. \'93I knew thou \
couldst never have so deceived me. But thou, Sophronia, \
sister as thou still art, is there no means whereby thou mayest: \
be brought to see the error of this vile superstition ?\'94 \
\
\
108 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPE. \
\
\
\'91**None,\'94 was the short, calm reply. \
\
**T have heard before that where this strange fanaticism seizes \
upon any, it converts them at once into enthusiasts and fools,\'94 \
said Coriander, in a tone which seemed a mixture of anger, \
amazement, and contempt. \'93 But I did not expect to find shee \
so lost to all sense of proper feeling as to embrace so degraded a \
belief. And you, Victor? I presume you will not think now \
of continuing your engagement with this wretched girl?\'94 \
\
\'93\'91T also am a Christian, Coriander. Will you believe that it \
was not through any fault of mine, nor of Sophronia\'92s, that vou \
were not informed of this sooner.\'94 \
\
\'93Are you all fools alike?\'94 cried Coriander. \'91\'91 Lady \
Camilla, you-\'97?\'94 \
\
Camilla rose. \'91My Lord,\'94 she said quietly, \'93I am a fool \
also, if to be a Christian is to be a fool. On tiat point you \
have your opinion: suffer me to retain mine.\'94 \
\
Stupendous!\'94 exclaimed the ma.ter of the house. He \
walked once or twice hurriedly across the room: then he \
stopped before Sophronia. \
\
\'91**T cannot tell thee,\'94 he said, \'93either how utterly amazed, \
or how deeply grieved, this news has made me. _ I will not be \
angry with thee\'97thou art but a woman, and hast neither philo- \
sophy nor experience. I know thou lovest thy sister dearly : \
but I cannot possibly permit her to be any longer exposed to \
the evil influence of one who would attempt\'97as I have heard \
all of this sect do\'97to turn her to her own folly. Think, then, \
my unhappy child, that by retaining this vile fanaticism thou wilt \
lose thy sister. She is, I trust, untouched yet by such pernicious \
fancies: but I must needs forbid thee my house, and forbid her \
to see thee.\'94 \
\
\'91My brother!\'94 said Sophronia, raising her head, and look- \
ing earnestly into Coriander\'92s face, \'93whoso loveth father or \
mother more than Christ, is not worthy of Him. _ And whoso \
taketh not up his cross and followeth after Him, is not worthy \
of Him. But he that hath left father or mother, or brethren, \
or sisters, or houses, or lands, for His sake and the Gospel\'92s, \
shall receive an hundredfold now in this life. and in the world \
to come the life of ages.\'94 \
\
\
She came at last, robed in pure white, and with no decoration \
\
\
beyond the embroidery on her robes, and one white rose in her hair. \
\'97Ffage 107. \
\
\
ITO THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
The expression of Coriander\'92s eyes became more puzzled and \
contemptuously pitying as Sophronia proceeded. \
\
\'91\'91Why, the wretched girl must be perfectly mad!\'94 said he, \
\'abLife of ages!\'92 Is that what thy God is to give thee for thy \
service of Him? Unhappy child! I tell thee, death is but an \
ageful sleep. Thou art entangled in a maze of error.\'94 \
\
\'91If death be an ageful sleep, what signifies the error ?\'94 an- \
swered Sophronia. \'91I siiall never awake, to discover it nor to \
regret what is lost. Andif not, what then wiil become of thee ?\'94 \
\
* Why, thou sayest I shall live for ever!\'94 said Coriander, \
with a contemptuous laugh. \
\
\'91\'91For those who believe on the name of the Son of God, \
there is the life of ages; and for those who believe not, but \
choose to die in their sins, there is the death of ages, \'91 where \
their worm dieth not, and their fire is not quenched.\'92\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2 What a horrid superstition it must be!\'94 said Coriander. \
** Dost thou believe that? Why, I never heard of such a harsh, \
narrow, sanguinary religion! Is this to be my fate because I \
cannot believe in the man whom ye call the Anointed One?\'94 \
\
\'91Hast thou any wish to believe?\'94 \
\
\'91No, indeed, not in such a religion as that !\'94 \
\
\'93 Hast thou not then chosen for thyself the portion of the \
unbelievers? Doth God force thee? Thou hast spoken thine \
own doom, unless His great love and mercy save thee.\'94 \
\
\'93\'93\'a2Tove and mercy!\'92 I see no love nor mercy in such a \
system as that.\'94 \
\
\'93They are not for them that believe not. All the mercy and \
love of the Father is centred in His Son Jesus, and how shall \
they who trample Him under foot have any part therein ?\'94 \
\
\'93Well, I have heard quite enough. Say no more.\'94 And \
Coriander turned away. \
\
\'91One moment!\'94 said Sophronia. \
\
\'93Well?\'94 said he rather testily. \
\
\'91One thing thou must hear, and then J will speak no more, \
and I shall have delivered my soul. God speaketh this day \
even unto thee. Whoso forsaketh his sin, and believeth in the \
name of the Son of God, who offered Himself up upon the tree \
for us miserable sinners, shall be made partaker of everlasting \
\
\
CAST ON THE WORLD. II \
\
\
life. But for them that believe not, there remaineth nothing but \
the great judgment, and after that the Lake that no age can dry \
up, the fire that no water can put out. Thou knowest now \
the way of life, and between God and thee be the rest.\'94 \
\
\'93Why, the notions of these fanatics are even worse than I \
had supposed !\'94 said Coriander. \'91I knew they held some ab- \
surd unphilosophical ideas about resurrection and future life, \
and that they accepted as their chief prophet some malefactor \
who was put to death for disobeying the law: but I never \
imagined that they fancied their puerile superstition to be the \
only religion in the world, and set down all who did not lend \
themselves to it as worthy of punishment through all ages. It \
is perfectly monstrous ! \'94 \
\
\'93\'a2Nay, but who art thou that repliest against God?\'92\'94 \
responded the low, calm voice of Sophronia, in deep contrast \
with Coriander\'92s irritated tones. \
\
\'91\'93\'91T beg that I may hear no more of this!\'94 cried her brother- \
in-law. \'93 Every word you utter shows me the absolute necessity \
of an immediate separation between you and your sister. I \
cannot have my wife contaminated with such horrible and pre- \
posterous follies !\'97Irene, take leave of thy sister and of the \
Lady Camilla, for thou wilt see them no more.\'94 \
\
Irene was seated by the table. She rose at this summons, \
and the sisters clasped one another in a close embrace. \
\
\'91\'91T knew how it would be!\'94 was the last whisper from Irene. \
\'93 He has been less angry than I expected. He Aa\'e9es the Chris- \
tlans. Farewell, Sdfia: I will yet find means to see thee.\'94 \
\
\'93Not against his will,\'94 said Sophronia. \'93 Farewell, and the \
Lord abide with thee, and bless thee!\'94 \
\
The litters had been countermanded. Coriander said that \
he could not think of corrupting the minds of his slaves by \
allowing them to bear any one to the low vicinity where the \
sect of the Christians performed their detestable rites: but he \
offered the use of them as far as the new home allotted to \
Sophronia. This, however, she declined: and on foot, with \
large pepla concealing their festal robes, Camilla and Sophronia, \
escorted by Victor, set forth for the little Christian church, \
\
\
CHAPTER XI. \
\
\
THE NEW HOME, \
\
\
** How cau I bereav\'e9d be, \
Since I cannot part with Thee?\'94 \
\'97JouHN RYLAND. \
\
\
463 AMILLA, said Sophronia, as they went towards the \
ys) city, \'93thou hast confessed thy faith before men at \
last. Wilt thou be received as a catechumen?\'94 \
\'91\'91 Tf your priests will accept me,\'94 was the answer. \
\
\'91Beloved, we have no priest but one, Christ our Lord. But \
His Apostles have ordained elders in every city, and the Church \
of Corinth is one of the oldest established in Greece. If thou \
wilt, I will ask Victor to speak to the elder concerning thee.\'94 \
\
Camilla assented. A walk of rather less than an hour \
brought them to a quiet side-street in the city, where they \
entered a small house, bearing no outward dissimilarity to those \
on either side. The inside arrangements were soon perceived \
to be very different. Instead of passing through a vestibule and \
passage into the atrium, the passage conducted them to a small \
inner vestibule, cut off by a screen from the interior of the \
building. Victor, who appeared to be well acquainted with the \
place, passed behind the screen, leaving the ladies in the vesti- \
bule: and in a very few minutes a woman came to them, \
dressed in white, and wearing a hood upon her head. \
\
\'91\'91 My sisters,\'94 she said, \'911 am Priscilia, one of the deaconesses \
of the Church. Which is it of you that hath come to be joined \
to yonder brother in the bands of wedlock, and which she who \
asks to be made ready for the washing of water unto salvation ?\'94 \
\
\
THE NEW HOME. 113 \
\
\
\'93Here is the catechumen, my sister,\'94 said Sophronia, laying \
her hand on the shoulder of Camilla, and thus leaving Priscilla to \
understand that she was herself the bride. \'91\'91 Her name is Lelia \
Camilla Parata; she is of Latin birth, and of a noble family.\'94 \
\
\'93\'a2Ffonour to whom honour is due,\'92\'94 said the Deaconess ; \
\'91but here, my sister, know that we are all merely brethren and \
sisters. Outside the church I will call thee \'91Lady.\'92 If ye will \
abide here yet a few minutes, I will return to you.\'94 \
\
The mutual love of the earliest Christians was a proverb \
among the heathen. The mutual love of Christians in this \
nineteenth century is\'97nay, where is it? Has the Christianity \
grown faint, along with the love? It is in this Church of Corinth \
that we hear of the first schism, which is stigmatised as ** carnal\'94 \
by the voice of inspiration. But it was a schism, and not a \
heresy: a disagreement between brethren who held the same \
doctrines, not an unreal and veneered unity between the votaries \
of Baal and the disciples of Christ. \'91\'91 What agreement hath the \
Temple of God with idols ?\'94 is asked of the same Church which \
was censured for the first schism. \
\
When Priscilla returned, she requested the ladies to follow \
her. Having passed the wooden screen, they found themselves \
in a small round chamber, at one side of which was a vault, \
closed by an iron grating. A cupboard affixed to the wall was \
the only article of furniture in the room. Here stood a very \
old man, clad in white, with a flowing white beard. Beside \
him was a younger man clothed like himself, a woman habited \
after the manner of Priscilla, and Victor. \
\
Priscilla led the ladies forward, \
\
\'93 Here, Elder, is the maiden to be wedded, and this is she \
who desireth instruction for the sacred washing.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Hail, my daughters!\'94 said the old man; and addressing \
Sophronia, he added, \'93 Art thou of the Faithful?\'94 \
\
This query concerned her admission to full communion, for \
only the baptized, then as now, were eligible as communicants. \
During the earliest ages of the Church, all baptized persons \
received the communion as a matter of course, and if unable to \
attend church, the bread and wine were sent to them at home. \
Many kept the elements by them until their next meal, and \
\
H \
\
\
II4 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
began it with them. For the strictly Apostolic practice, I refer \
my readers to the Scriptures themselves. In the period imme- \
diately following, corruptions began to come in; yet a great \
number of these grew slowly. Many points are uncertain; but \
what can be certainly stated with respect to the first century \
is as follows. \
\
With the exception of the use of forms of prayer\'97more or: \
less rigid in different Churches\'97the primitive celebration of \
Divine service and of the Sacraments appears to have greatly \
resembled the present custom of Nonconformist communions, \
The Churches of Rome and Alexandria had always the stiffest, \
most stringent, and most minute ritual of any. But it may \
generally be said that the primitive order was very much more \
elastic than that of the subsequent ages. It was almost free \
from any observance of times and seasons,\'97the Lord\'92s Day \
was the only exception: for not only saints\'92 days, but Christ- \
mas, Lent, and Easter, are of later origin. It had scarcely \
any ceremonies\'97the Sacraments, confirmation, marriage, and \
burial, exhausted the list of rites. The bishop was simply the \
head presbyter of each Church\'97grimus tnler pares\'97and was \
much in the position of a modern rector with several curates. \
The deaconess filled for women the same place as the deacon \
for men, and both were servants of the Church, Baptism took \
place in the round baptistery, which was a vestibule to the \
Church, and was performed either by immersion or suffusion,\'97 \
more frequently the former,\'97but always by the Bishop. Until \
a later date than this, it was the initial rite of the Christian life. \
When it began to be supposed that sin after baptism was hard \
to be forgiven, the natural result followed\'97that baptism was \
postponed, sometimes until the very moment preceding death: \
thus entirely destroying its significance as the witnessing for \
Christ before men. \
\
The Lord\'92s Supper was administered four times in the week. \
Some churches had it on Sunday ; others carefully avoided that \
day. It took place twice in each day, in the early morning \
before dawn, and again in the evening, at the usual hour of \
supper. In the latter case it was often preceded by the Agape, \
or love-feast. All present communicated, those who were not \
\
\
THE NEW HOME. 116 \
\
\
allowed to do so, leaving the church before the rite commenced. \
Those who left deliberately, of choice, are the product of a later \
age: for in early times, persons who did not mean to com- \
municate did not attend church at all. The bread, baked in the \
form of the large flat cake usual in the East, and in the Eastern \
half of Europe, was originally broken between two persons ; \
but very early it became the custom for the deacon to break it, \
and hand it to the partaker, It was always taken in the bare \
hand; when the notion arose that it was too sacred to be \
touched, it was received first in a golden vessel, and afterwards \
in a napkin laid over the hand. For the priest to place it in \
the mouth was a much later innovation. The Sacrament was \
administered in both kinds. In times of persecution, some \
congregations substituted water for wine, to avoid betraying their \
hours of celebration to the heathen by the scent of the latter: \
but they were generally censured for doing so. The idea that \
it was wicked to drop a crumb of the consecrated bread seems \
to be one of the earliest superstitions that entered the Church. \
Th\'e9 mixing of water with the wine obtained currency from the \
first, but it arose, not from any doctrinal fancy, but from the \
fact that the ancient wines were syrups, and could be drunk only \
by mixture with water. \
\
To the question put by the Elder, Sophronia and Victor both \
replied that they belonged to \'93the Faithful\'94\'97namely, they had \
been baptized and were regular communicants of the Church. \
\
\'91Priscilla, my sister,\'94 said Stephanas the Elder, turning to the \
Deaconess, \'93take thou this maiden into safe keeping till the \
marriage be over. But I will first judge of her fitness for holy \
baptism.\'97Come hither, my daughter. Hast thou received any \
instruction in the faith?\'94 \
\
\'93 None, my Lord, except from the friend beside me,\'94 \
answered Camilla timidly. \
\
\'93 Who hath taught thee rather doctrine than ceremony, me- \
thinks,\'94 said Stephanas with a smile, \'93else wouldst thou not \
call me Lord. Is it not so, daughter ?\'94 \
\
\'93J burdened her not with that, Elder,\'94 replied Sophronia, \
echoing the smile: \'91indeed, I scarcely knew that the doctrine \
had taken so deep root as to raise a wish to be received among \
\
\
116 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
us: and until it was so, there was little use in dwelling upon \
unimportant matters,\'94 \
\
\'93Right,\'94 said the Elder, turning back to Camilla, \'93And \
now, my daughter, tell me\'97why desirest thou to be received \
into the fold of Christ our Lord?\'94 \
\
\'93Because,\'94 said Camilla, venturing to look up, and feeling \
reassured by the benevolent face of the Elder, \'91I feel wholly \
dissatisfied with the religion in which I have been brought up, \
and I want to find a God who will hear and answer prayer. I \
am told that Christ does this. I have prayed to Him to show \
me the truth, and to give me grace in your eyes, that I may be \
taught it, if this be the truth ; and I think that He has answered \
me in leading me here to-day.\'94 \
\
\'93 Undoubtedly. Then thou believest in the name of the \
only-begotten Son of God ?\'94 \
\
*\'91T believe that He has heard my prayer; and if so, He must \
be divine. So far I believe. For more, I beg to be taught.\'94 \
\
\'91Thou shalt be taught. What hath been thy early religion \
\'97the worship of false gods, or the philosophy of the Greeks ?\'94 \
\
\'93The worship of the gods, I am not a Greek; I am a \
Latin.\'94 \
\
\'93 Thy tongue told me that,\'94 said Stephanas, smiling again. \
\'91 Thou shalt be received, my daughter, as a catechumen of the \
Church of Corinth. Priscilla our sister will find thee where to \
abide for a short season, until thy friends can rejoin thee.\'97 \
And now, ye who are called, and chosen, and faithful, enter \
ye into the House of God !\'94 \
\
Camilla noticed that Sophronia and the Deaconess passed \
out of the baptistery by a door on the right, and Stephanas, \
Victor and the Deacon, by one on the left; but she had no \
chance to see or hear more before Priscilla took her hand and \
led her back into the street. She was naturally timid, and be- \
side her disappointment at not being allowed to remain and \
witness the marriage, she felt a little nervous, thus separated \
from all whom she knew, for Victor and Sophronia were prac- \
tically the only friends left to her in the world. Priscilla, how- \
ever, was very kind ; she chatted cheerfully as she led Camilla \
to the house of Rhoda her niece, which was only a few doors \
\
\
THE NEW HOME. 117 \
\
\
from the little church. _ Arriving there, she tapped at the door, \
and being bidden to enter, lifted the latch with \'93 Peace be to \
this house !\'94 \
\
* And with thy spirit!\'94 was the response from a pleasant- \
looking young woman, who sat on a bench with an infant in \
her arms. \'91\'93 Ah, Deaconess, is it thou? Thrice welcome! \'94 \
\
\'93Rhoda, I bring to thee a Roman lady who has desired to \
become a catechumen, that she may abide with thee during the \
nuptials of her friends, who are of the Faithful.\'94 \
\
Rhoda rose from her seat, with the baby in her arms. \
\
** Fail, Lady!\'94 she said respectfully. \'91\'91 Will it please you \
to sit? Mine is a poorer house than I guess you are used to, \
but I would make you heartily welcome.\'94 \
\
Camilla thanked her, and volunteered to hold the baby if it \
would be any help to her. \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Thanks, sweet Lady: it would indeed be a help to me, for \
I am too poor to afford a slave, and have to do all my house- \
hold work alone. And household work goeth on but ill with an \
infant to be seen to, especially one cutting his first tooth, as \
this babe is\'97the Lord be his aid!\'94 \
\
Camilla took the child, and Rhoda, disappearing fora moment, \
returned with a large pan, which she hung over the fire burn- \
ing on the hearth. She then went about other household \
matters, talking cheerily the while. Camilla thus incidentally \
learned that Rhoda\'92s husband was a journeyman who worked \
under a cabinetmaker, and that wages were low at present. She \
was, however, happy to say that Andronicus expected to obtain \
some work next week in the house of one of the richest men in \
Corinth, who had sent down to the shop for a skilled workman \
to execute a piece of elaborate cabinet-making, and as her \
husband was acknowledged by his master to be the best of his \
workmen, she had hopes that he might be sent up to Coriander\'92s \
house. \
\
\'93Coriander!\'94 said Camilla with a good deal of amused in- \
terest: \'93I know something of him. What character does he \
bear in the city?\'94 \
\
\'93He is a Pagan, you know, Lady,\'94 said she. \'91\'93 Otherwise \
he bears no ill name in Corinth. He has the reputation of a \
\
\
118 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
rather odd man, but of a benevolent one. He has little mercy, \
however, for us Christians, if we cross his path ; and I believe \
that his beautiful young wife, the Lady Irene, hath even less.\'94 \
\
\'91You surprise me!\'94 said Camilla. \
\
\'93Truly, I would not speak evil of any, answered Rhoda, \
beginning to mix her dough: \'93the rather since I know only what \
I have heard. But J did once know a slave of hers who was a \
sister, and she gave me to understand as I have told you.\'94 \
\
Rhoda seemed to fear that she had said too much, for she \
worked away vigorously and was silent, while Camilla sat hold- \
ing the baby and thinking. She had not sat thus many minutes \
longer when a tap came at the door, and on Rhoda\'92s answering \
invitation to enter, the latch was lifted and Victor presented \
himself. Camilla sprang up, remembering herself just in time \
not to drop the baby. \
\
\'91\'91Oh!\'94 she said in gratified tones. \'93Is it over?\'94 \
\
\'93Tt is over,\'94 replied Victor with some amusement in his \
voice. \'91Sophronia is at home, and will be glad to see you.\'94 \
\
The house which Coriander had bestowed on his sister-in- \
law stood at the corner of a neighbouring street. The door \
was approached by two or three steps, and from it a narrow \
passage led to the first peristyle, intended for the use of the \
male membersof the family. <A further door, opposite the former, \
gave access to the peristyle of the women. Round these peri- \
styles, as at Pompeii, were ranged smaller apartments, some \
closed by curtains, some by doors. The walls were painted \
a pale fawn-colour, on which at intervals were delineated gar- \
lands, Tritons, &c., principally inblue. Coriander had furnished \
the house comfortably: but it was far larger than Victor and \
Sophronia required. They agreed to give up to Camilla a suite \
of three rooms opening into each other, which surrounded the \
women\'92s peristyle ; and Sophronia was to occupy as many as she \
needed of those on the opposite side. To Euphrosyne and \
Penelope were allotted rooms opening into those of their re- \
spective mistresses: but after all were provided for, there ap- \
peared sundry apartments which were needed for no purpose. \
These it was evident must be shut up for the present. \
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Victor: \'93while you are settling these matters, \
\
\
THE NEW HOME. 119 \
\
\
T will go back to Coriander, and offer to return him the money \
which he has lent me. I do not feel justified in keeping it, \
since at the time that he made the offer he was not aware of \
my religion. I shall also ask him to take back the house, but to \
have the goodness to allow us to remain here for a few days, \
until we can find another home. Ought I not to do this, \
Sophronia ?\'94 \
\
And after a moment\'92s thought Sophronia answered, * I think \
you ought, Victor.\'94 Camilla was rather dismayed at the prompt \
decision of her friends. But in two or three hours Victor \
returned, to announce that Coriander utterly refused to receive \
again anything that he had bestowed. \
\
\'91I gave the house,\'94 he said rather loftily, \'93to the sister of \
my wife, and her Christian whim, lamentable though it is, has \
not changed the relationship. And I supplied the money to \
the son of my old friend Antonius Marcellus, which you have \
not ceased to be. I take not back what I give. Nay, more\'97 \
I cannot forget my obligations to your father, and I do not \
retract my invitation to you to apply to me in any matter \
wherein you may need help. Come and see me\'97*e\'97when- \
ever you require. On one thing only I insist\'97that neither \
vou, nor your wife, nor the Lady Camilla, shall make any \
attempt to communicate with Irene.\'94 \
\
As Victor was passing through the peristyle on his way from \
the room in which Coriander had received him, he encoun- \
tered the very person whose interviews with him had been so \
sternly proscribed. A curtain was hastily lifted, and Irene stood \
before him. He bowed to her, and would have passed on. \
\
\'93What makes you in such a hurry?\'94 sald she. \'93 Can\'92t you \
wait a minute? I want to give you something for my sister.\'94 \
\
\'93But, Irene, I have been forbidden to speak to you.\'94 \
\
\'93 What nonsense! Now just see\'97\'94 \
\
\'91But I have promised. I must not seek any interview. \
Farewell! \'94 \
\
\'93How horribly particular you are! What does it signify? \
Do wait a minute. You have not sought an interview. And \
I don\'92t want you to speak to me. Listen while I speak to you. \
Give this to Sofia, with my love \'bb\'97she was holding out a small \
\
\
120 THE SLAVE GLREL. OF POMPET, \
\
\
cylindrically-shaped parcel\'97\'93 and tell her she may want it some \
day, if not now. Now remember, you are not to speak! \
Nod, to say you will give it her.\'94 \
\
\'93 Tt does not contain jewels?\'94 \
\
\'91That is not speaking, I suppose? No, it does not. And \
tell her\'97he is coming! Farewell!\'94 \
\
And Irene fled like a startled fawn. \
\
\'93Ts this wrong?\'94 thought Victor to himself as he slipped the \
little packet into his bosom. \'93I did not seek the interview, \
and I could not have prevented it without positive rudeness, \
I do not see what I could have done.\'94 \
\
On the packet being opened when Victor arrived at home, it \
proved to be a rouleau of twenty mineze. \
\
Sophronia and Camilla now began to prosecute their work in \
good earnest. Camilla set to work on a life-size picture of \
Achilles. She was rather perplexed as to her cinoice of subjects, \
being very loth to select them from heathen mythology, and \
yet hardly knowing of any others, as the Roman painters drew \
nearly all their inspiration from this source. She at length made \
up her mind to choose subjects from history and life. Sophronia \
informed her that Greek artists in general were not so much \
restricted as the Roman in this particular. Her next picture, \
therefore, was a country farmyard; the third a garland of \
flowers, with fruit. On the Sunday she went with Sophronia to \
the little Christian church, where her friends were obliged to \
leave her on the outer side of the screen. She also joined the \
rest of the catechumens at certain times, when they received \
instruction from one of the Deaconesses. Camilla began to \
perceive that the Christian faith was something far higher, \
deeper, and broader than she had previously supposed. She \
shrank a little from the self-application Imposed upon her both \
by the Deaconess and her cwn conscience. Neither could she \
at first comprehend the extent of God\'92s commandments, nor \
admit to herself that many ideas, feelings, and practices upon \
which she had always looked as harmless or even laudable, \
were in reality positive sins. Thus Camilla learned at first slowly ; \
but she did learn, and Sophronia very soon perceived that tie \
work was begun\'97even before Camilla was assured of it herself. \
\
\
CHAPTER XAL \
\
\
ADMITTED TO THE FOLD. \
\
\
\'91Thine for ever! Saviour, keep \
These Thy frail and trembling sheep." \
\
\
with a string of birds, a basket of choice fruit, or \
a web of rare tissue, with a statement that his \
master was in good health, and wished his friends prosperity. \
But beyond this they saw and heard nothing of the inhabitants \
ot the villa. \
\
One evening in early spring, there came a decidedly sharp \
knock on the street door. This occurrence, from its extreme \
infrequency, always produced a little excitement in the interior \
of the house. Euphrosyne answered the knock, and in another \
moment she appeared in the ladies\'92 peristyle to make the \
startling announcement\'97 \
\
\'93The gracious Lady Irene.\'94 \
\
Behind her appeared two figures, each wrapped in a peplos. \
The foremost, whose peplos was of rich Tyrian purple, proved \
to be Irene, and the other, when unveiled, revealed the face of \
Phyllis. \
\
\'93Trene!\'94 cried Sophronia. \'91Has Coriander permitted \
thee, dear Sister, to come and see us ?\'94 \
\
\'93What do I care for Coriander?\'94 inquired Irene, seating \
herself, and throwing off her peplos. \'91No, of course not. \
But I told you I should come.\'94 \
\
" bene!\'94 \
\
\
122 THE SLAVE GIRE. OF POMPEII, \
\
\
\'93Well, what is the matter?\'94 \
\
\'93What can I say?\'94 responded Sophronia. \'93I am not in \
the habit of saying that I do not care for my husband.\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, thou!\'94 said Irene, peevishly pulling the rich wrap \
from behind her, and jerking it upon the nearest bench. \'91No, \
I dare say. Thy husband is a very different type of man from \
mine, I can tell thee.-\'97How does your painting progress, \
Camilla? Have you any purchasers yet ?\'94 \
\
\'93Not yet : indeed, I am scarcely ready for one. I have only \
one painting quite finished, and I should itke to have two or three \
done before I begin to look out for purchasers\'97if I find any.\'94 \
\
\'93May I see it?\'94 \
\
\'91Certainly. Will you come into my painting-room ?\'97but \
I fear my picture will not look its best by lamp-light.\'94 \
\
The painting was the Achilles. Camilla had chosen the \
moment when he was seated in his tent, and the Trojan envoys \
were just leading Briseis away. Irene gazed at the picture in \
silence. At length she said, in her pleasantest manner,\'97 \
\
\'91Tt is a very fine picture, Camilla. I should tiink you need \
not fear difficulty in meeting with a purchaser.\'94 \
\
The ladies returned to the peristyle, and Irene folded her \
peplos round her and over her head, as a preparation for \
departure. \
\
\'93Now, Sophronia, art thou well? Dost thou want any- \
thing ?\'94 \
\
\'93\'91T am quite well, dear Sister, and I need nothing.\'94 \
\
**T am sorry for that.\'94 \
\
\'93Trene, what canst thou say to Coriander?\'94 \
\
\'93Why should I say anything? He does not know I am \
out of the house.\'94 \
\
\'91Suppose he ask where thou hast been this last hour?\'94 \
\
\'91* He never does,\'94 said Irene with a laugh. \'91 But if he were \
to do, I should easily find an answer. I have been walking in \
the garden by moonlight\'97looking over my jewels\'97designing \
new patterns. I will say this for my lord,\'97he is the easiest \
man in the world to cheat.\'94 \
\
\
\'91\'91Trene, what meanest thou ?\'97wouldst thou lie to thine \
husband ?\'94 \
\
\
ADMITTED TO THE FOLD, 123 \
\
\
\'93Lie !\'97what if Ido? Am I not living a lie, every hour that \
I breathe? What signifies a lie spoken more or less, to one \
whose whole life is one lie? Farewell! Let me go. Phyllis!\'94 \
\
Phyllis, who had been chatting to Penelope, presented her- \
self with a lamp, and in another moment Irene was gone. \
\
\
Two events occurred in the course of the following summer. \
The first was the birth of an infant daughter to Victor and \
Sophronia. To Camilla, scarcely less than to its mother, the \
baby was a source of never-ending delight. Whether awake \
or asleep, laughing or crying, doubling its tiny fists at nothing, \
or gazing at the same object with grave wide-open black eyes \
\'97in all attitudes it presented an admirable model. Sophronia \
did, indeed, suggest a doubt as to whether the human form \
was an allowable object for painting. But on this subject \
Camilla could not see with the eyes of her friend, and she \
maintained that what was forbidden by the Second Command- \
ment was manifestly the painting or carving of objects for \
worship. Victor, to whose decision as umpire both ladies ap- \
pealed, did not give a very conclusive answer. His Christian \
education drew him in one direction, and the natural sym- \
pathies of his Greek feeling in another. He admitted that \
certainly some Christians were of opinion that painting the \
human figure was unlawful; but this was by no means the \
case with all: and he reminded his wife that if the Second \
Commandment were held to forbid the delineation of man for \
other objects beside worship, it must necessarily be considered \
to preclude all painting of any thing: since even a rose or a \
peach was something in earth beneath. In this Sophronia \
acquiesced, but still did not seem convinced on the debated \
point. Camilla, however, gathering from Victor\'92s reply that \
he at any rate did not consider it wrong to paint the baby, \
resumed her brush with an easy conscience. The prenomen \
to be bestowed on the infant was considerably canvassed. \
Sophronia was divided between Berenice and Theodora; \
Victor said little, but in his heart he wished the child to re- \
ceive the name of his Grecian mother, Aglaia. As soon as \
Sophronia guessed this, she waived her own predilections, and \
\
\
124 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
requested that this name might be selected. So Aglaia Mar. \
cella became the infant\'92s name: and at least a dozen portraits \
of it, in varying attitudes, decorated the walls of Camilla\'92s \
painting-room. \
\
The second event was the baptism of Camilla herself. She \
had been a catechumen for some months before she was re- \
ceived among the hearers, and transferred thence after a short \
time into the order of Consistents, who were admitted behind \
the screen with the Faithful, but were not yet ailowed to par- \
ticipate in either of the Sacraments. At the end ot a few \
weeks more, Stephanas pronounced her fit for baptism. \
\
The candidates for baptism on this occasion were about \
twelve in number. \'91They were ranged along one side of the \
baptistery, in the presence of the Faithful, with their faces to \
the west, and were commanded by the Bishop, who fronted \
them on the other side, to stretch out their right hands, sym- \
bolical of defiance to the Devil. \'91Then the Bishop asked,\'97 \
\
\'93Tost thou renounce the Devil and all his works, powers, \
and service ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91T do renounce them,\'94 answered each candidate. \
\
\'93Dost thou renounce the world, and all its pomps and \
pleasures ?\'94 \
\
\'93IT do renounce them.\'94 \
\
They were then asked whether they believed in each article \
of the formula which we call the Apostles\'92 creed, down to \'93the \
holy Catholic Church:\'94 and to each question they answered, \
\'93TI do believe.\'94 The concluding queries were :\'97 \
\
\'93Dost thou believe in one baptism of repentance for the \
remission of sins?\'97and dost thou believe in the life of \
ages P\'94 \
\
The sponsors stood close behind the candidates. \
\
The Bishop now breathed on the faces of the candidates, \
and offered a prayer that God would be pleased to deliver them \
from the power of Satan, and to put His good Spirit within \
them. Each of the persons to be baptized was now anointed \
on the head, to signify that they were grafted into Christ, the \
cood olive-tree. At this juncture in later times, the sign of the \
cross was marked on their foreheads: but it is very doubtful \
\
\
bores : ar yvirele \
Camilla, however, gathering from Victor's relpy that he at any rate \
\
\
i sume ith an \
did not consider it wrong to paint the baby, resumed her brush wi \
\
\
easy conscience.\'97Paegr 173. \
\
\
126 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
whether it dates back to the first century, before the cross was \
an acknowledged Christian emblem. \
\
The women were then conducted by Priscilla and Alexandra, \
the deaconesses, to a baptistery by themselves, where they \
undressed for the ceremony. Here they were presently joined \
by the Bishop, who took the hand of each candidate, the \
deaconesses standing close round her, and immersed her in \
the water three times, saying\'97 \
\
\'93In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the \
Holy Ghost, I baptize thee.\'94 \
\
The Bishop then left them, and the newly-baptized women \
were assisted to dress by the deaconesses, after which they re- \
turned to the vestibule of the church. A second anointing \
followed, and the baptized persons were clothed in white robes, \
the Bishop saying to them\'97 \
\
\'93Receive the white and stainless garment, and bring it forth \
without spot before the tribunal of our Lord Jesus Christ, that \
thou mayest receive life of ages,\'94 \
\
\'93 Amen,\'94 was the response. \
\
This closed the ceremony. \
\
For a week Camilla was required to wear her white robe, \
taking the utmost care to preserve it from defilement of every \
kind: she then resigned it to Priscilla, and it was laid up, \
marked with her name, in the sacristy of the church. A few \
weeks afterwards she was confirmed, the Bishop laying his \
hands upon her head with solemn prayer that she might grow \
in grace and in the knowledge of Christ, and be enabled to per- \
form those vows and that profession which she had taken upon \
herself in the presence of the Church. She was now ranked \
among the Faithful, and was admitted to the Lord\'92s Supper. \
\
It had not yet occurred to the minds of Christians that \
the Church could mean anything but the congregation of the \
Faithful. When a man speaks, as many now do, of the clergy \
as if they were the Church, and of the Church as if she eins \
Christ, he is not approaching, but departing from, the ideal of \
the primitive Church. For the bride to talk of herself rather \
tie the bridegroom, is a very bad augury of the state of her \
\
eart. \
\
\
ADMITTED TO THE FOLD. 127 \
\
\
As Sophronia and Camilla returned one evening from the \
Sacrament, Penelope\'97detained at home on account of the \
baby\'97ran to meet them in the outer peristyle. \
\
\'91\'93\'91O Lady! almost immediately after your departure, came a \
messenger bearing this scroll, which he said was for the Lady \
Camilla, I would have run after you, but I thought you were \
too far away.\'94 \
\
\'93 Better not,\'94 answered Camilla, taking the scroll. It was a \
small piece of parchment, rolled round, and tied with a blue \
thread secured by wax. \
\
\'93A letter, Camilla!\'94 exclaimed Sophronia. \'91Is it from \
Domina Marcia?\'94 \
\
\'93Tt must be; no one else would write to me,\'94 replied Camilla, \
cutting the string. \'91It is from Marcia, and I will read it to \
you,\'94 she added, having run her eye over it. \
\
\'93To the gracious lady of patrician birth, Lelia Camilla \
Parata, her sister, Marcia Gratiana, spouse of Lucius Strophius \
Cornelius, wisheth health and all felicity. \
\
\'93Know, dear sister, that I am in good health, as also Is \
Strophius my lord. And I desire much to hear the same con- \
cerning thyself. Know also that we had a prosperous journey \
hither, and arrived at Rome in health and safety. Moreover, \
in this city I have found several persons who escaped the erup- \
tion at Pompeii, namely, Domina Cornelia Vipsania, and \
Dominus Arrius Pamphilius ; I hear also of others from our \
city, but I cannot yet learn their names. I have, however, no \
hope that our father or our mother can be found amongst them. \
My lord\'92s house is very large, and I have had the pleasure of \
being present at many entertainments. The Temple of Juno \
is one of the most splendid in this city, and when thou shalt visit \
me I will take thee to worship there. Let me hear of thy health. \
Salute from me and my lord Dominus Coriander, and Domina \
Irene, as well as Dominus Victor and Domina Sophronia. \
Our friends here salute thee. Farewell.\'94 \
\
\'93 How completely all that phase of my life seems past and \
gone!\'94 said Camilla as she rolled up Marcia\'92s letter. \
\
\'93Ves, beloved,\'94 answered Sophronia. \'91\'93\'91The darkness. is \
past with thee, and the true light now shineth,\'92\'94 \
\
\
128 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93I shall write to Marcia,\'94 pursued Camilla, \'93and tell her the \
whole truth as respects myself.\'94 \
\
\'93Truth is always best,\'94 responded Sophronia. \
\
The letter which was sent to Marcia ran as follows:\'97** To \
the gracious lady of patrician birth, Marcia Gratiana, spouse \
of the learned and illustrious Lucius Strophius Cornelius, her \
sister Lelia Camilla desireth health and happiness. \
\
\'93 Know, dear sister, that your letter has come to my hands, \
and I am greatly rejoiced to hear of your health and prosperity, \
and of your safe voyage to Rome. Know also that my own \
health continues good. I am glad to hear that some of our \
friends at Pompeii escaped from the destruction of the city, and I \
pray you to salute them from me when you shail see any of them. \
\
\'91\'93\'91 And now, dear sister Marcia, I have something to tell you, \
which I beg you to take in good part. I have been received \
by holy baptism into the religion of the Christians. Victor and \
Sophronia are also of this faith. JI would that you likewise \
might be induced to hear the Christian preaching at Rome, and \
to believe in our pure and holy faith. Trouble not yourself \
concerning me: there is no present persecution of this faith ; \
and should there be hereafter, I trust that God will strengthen \
me to hold the truth even unto death, should such be His will. \
\
\'91Vou desire me to salute from you Dominus Coriander and \
Domina Irene. Know that we now see nothing of them. \
Dominus Coriander was greatly annoyed on the discovery of \
our religion, and has insisted on our holding no communication \
with his wife. \
\
\'91Dominus Victor and Sophronia salute you and your lord. \
Salute from me all friends, and forget not Flora. And may \
Christ the Lord have mercy upon you, though you know Him \
not! Farewell.\'94 \
\
A quiet, uneventful year passed away before Camilla received \
any answer to this letter. When that period had elapsed, as \
Camilla was crossing the peristyle from her own rooms to those \
of Sophronia, Penelope came up the steps with two small rolls \
in her hands. \
\
\'91Tetters!\'94 cried Camilla. A letter was an event in those \
days. \'93Surely, Penelope, they are not both for me P\'94 \
\
\
ADMITTED TO THE FOLD. 129 \
\
\
\'93The messenger said, for the Lady Camilla\'94 \
\
\'91From my sister, of course,\'94 responded Camilla, as she took \
the rolls, her voice betraying her unusual excitement: \'93 but from \
whom can the second be? I trust Marcia is not ill, and that \
some one else has written to tell me.\'94 \
\
She was hurriedly cutting the strings of her letters as she \
spoke, Both were addressed alike\'97\'93To the Lady Lelia \
Camilla Parata, dwelling in the house of the illustrious Lord \
Marcellus Victor, in the renowned city of Corinth.\'94 But before \
Camilla had finished reading the first paragraph of the letter \
which was not in her sister\'92s writing, a cry of amazement and \
delight burst from her lips. \
\
\'91\'91My mother! my mother!\'94 she cried; and sinking on her \
knees, she buried her face in her robe and sobbed like a child. \
\
\'93QQ Camilla! have you heard that Domina Aurelia has \
survived the ruin of Pompeii?\'94 \
\
Camilla held out her scrolls to Sophronia. \
\
\'93Read them both\'97my mother\'92s first.\'94 \
\
And Sophronia read. \
\
\'93To Lelia Camilla her daughter, Flavia Aurelia Cotta \
desireth health, felicity, and wisdom. \
\
\'91\'93\'a2T doubt not it will be with pleasure that my child will learn \
the news of my safety. Only yesterday did I myself discover \
what had befallen my daughters. J am now in Marcia\'92s house, \
and I bid thee to set out for Rome at the earliest possible \
opportunity. Thou shalt learn the details of my escape when \
I behold thee. Thy father is in eternal sleep. \
\
\'93Camilla, my daughter, I have no words to tell thee the grief \
and horror with which I have read thy letter to thy sister. \
Better, far better hadst thou died in Pompeii, than that thou \
shouldst be saved to forsake the gods, to disgrace thy family, \
to break thy mother\'92s heart. I charge thee to give up at once \
this infamous superstition.to which thou hast devoted thyselt. \
By all thy mother\'92s tenderness\'97by all thy filial love\'97by the \
Lares and Penates of thine own house\'97by the home of thine \
early years\'97by the grave of thy father under the ashes of \
Pompeii,\'97by all that thou countest and has counted precious, \
holy, or dear\'97I charge thee to resign at once the false gods \
\
I \
\
\
130 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
which thou hast adopted, and the evil friends who have caused \
thee to disgrace thyself, and come home to thy mother\'92s em. \
brace, to thy sister\'92s house, to thy country\'92s gods! Come to \
me, my best-loved, my youngest-born, my heart\'92s Camilla ! \
\
\'93The gods keep thee! Farewell.\'94 \
\
Marcia\'92s letter was shorter and sharper. \
\
\'93Marcia Gratiana to her sister Lelia Camilla sendeth greeting, \
\
\'93I always knew you were romantic, but I never before \
thought you a fool. Camilla, I am ashamed of you! Come to \
Rome at once, and let us save you from the disgrace into which \
you have plunged yourself. Would that Sophronia had been \
directly sent back to Calphurnius! I can see that it is your \
silly infatuation for that creature which has led you into your \
present shameful position, and I perceive more than ever the \
evil of associating with those beneath me. Let us not feel that \
we have to blush for your folly, but come immediately, and you \
shall be forgiven. I wish you health and happiness, and a \
better mind\'97more common sense, in short. Farewell.\'94 \
\
Camilla continued to weep all the time that Sophronia was \
reading. The reproaches of Marcia, however, seemed to make \
little impression on her. She was too much accustomed to the \
bitter tongue of her sister, whenever any difference of opinion \
arose between them\'92; but Sophronia readily perceived that the \
mournful pleading of the widowed Aurelia had reached the heart \
of her child. She trembled for Camilla, yet she did not speak. \
\
At length Camilla lifted her head, and her sobs grew calmer. \
\
\'91\'91Q Sophronia, what can I do? My mother\'92s letter has \
almost broken my heart! God Himself has told us to \'91honour \
our father and our mother\'92: and yet \'91he that loveth father \
or mother more than Christ, is not worthy of Him!\'92 What \
shall I do? Counsel me, dear.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2Thou has counselled thyself, my sister. Art thou willing \
to be unworthy of Him?\'94 \
\
\'93Ono! no!\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2Then thy course is plain,\'94 \
\
\'93 But how far would it be right for me to disregard her \
command to go to her?\'94 \
\
\'93She has told thee her object in that command\'97to lead \
\
\
ADMITTED TO THE FOLD. 131 \
\
\
thee away from the fold\'97away from the Shepherd. Therefore \
in going to her thou wouldst be departing from Him. At least \
so it seems to me.\'94 \
\
Camilla sat on the floor gazing into vacancy. In a few \
minutes she sprang up. \
\
\'94 Give me parchment, and let me write at once, before I \
waver in my decision. Let me write and send it before I \
break my heart! Mother! Mother! if I only might have dared \
to see you !\'94 \
\
Sophronia found the parchment, and Camilla wrote\'97\'91 To \
the noble patrician Lady, the Domina Flavia Aurelia Cotta, her \
loving and humble daughter, Leelia Camilla, wisheth health, \
mercy, and all blessing. \
\
\'93First give me leave to say, mine own dear Mother, how very, \
very happy it made me to hear of thy health and safety, for \
which I have scarcely dared to hope. Also that I wish exceed- \
ingly to see thee, and am deeply grieved that I may not do so. \
But, sweet Mother, thou hast charged me to resign the faith as \
the concomitant of my coming. How can I give up Christ? \
How shall I deny Him who gave His life for me? I have \
been washed with the hallowed water, devoted to Him in holy \
baptism: I have heard the sound of His gracious and blessed \
words: I have felt upon my head the symbolical unction, and \
have been blessed by the imposition of the hands of the Bishop ; \
I have celebrated with bread and wine the commemorative feast \
of the body and blood of the Lord; I am sealed to Him for \
ever; I cannot go back! \
\
\'91Dear, dear Mother, pardon me, I pray thee! I will give up \
at thy command anything save Christ! If thou knewest how full \
mine heart is of love to thee, and of sorrow that I cannot obey \
thee without disobeying the Lord who hath loved me and died \
for me, thou wouldst forgive me. Salute from me my sister ; \
her words are answered herein also. Sophronia salutes you \
both. I would with all mine heart that I could have done \
otherwise without sin. Farewell.\'94 \
\
\
V4 oe | \
RS \
\
\
GHAPTER. IL. \
THROUGH THE STORM. \
\
\
\'91 And some have found the world is vain, \
Yet from the world they break not free, \
And some have friends that give them pain, \
Yet have not sought a friend in Thee.\'94 \
\
\
TROSPERITY was now visiting Victor, and he found \
4, himself able to return to Coriander a portion of the \
sum lentto him. Inquiring at his house in the city, \
he learned that he had just moved there for the \
winter: and he was ushered into a peristyle, the decorations of \
which were quite as magnificent as those of the suburban villa. \
Coriander entered in a few minutes. \
\
\'91Ah, Victor, my son!\'94 said he, in tones of indubitable \
pleasure. \'91It is an age since 1 have seen thee. How fare \
you all?\'94 \
\
Victor replied that they were all well, and that his family \
had been increased by the birth of a daughter: he was also \
thankful to add that he was prospering in business. \
\
\'93\'91 May the gods be thanked!\'94 said Coriander. \'93 But, Victor, \
my friend, why do you shun us so pertinaciously? You have \
not been near the house for months.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2T must remind you of what you said, Coriander.\'94 \
\
\'91Nonsense! A man never means exactly what he says when \
he is angry. Beside, I never did say that / did not wish to see \
you, nor that you were not to salute Irene, if you met her. i \
have no objection to any one seeing her in my presence. I only \
want to prevent your making a Christian of her. She will be \
\
\
THROUGH THE STORM. 133 \
\
\
J \
\
\
delighted to hear of the birth of her little niece: women always \
go mad over babies, I believe. She won\'92t proselytise for a while \
yet, if you like to let Irene see her: and we shall not harm \
her, I suppose, even in your precise eyes.\'94 \
\
\'93T will trust you with our little Aglaia,\'94 said Victor, smiling. \
\'93 And as to our persuading Irene to become a Christian, I fear \
there is little cause for you to alarm yourself on that score.\'94 \
\
\'93Well, no, I hope not,\'94 said Coriander, clapping his hands, \
\'93Eubulus, tell your mistress I wish to see her here.\'97Now, \
Victor, don\'92t take my angry words too literally. I love thee, my \
son, as well as ever, despite thy strange whims and fantasies.\'94 \
\
Before Victor had uttered more than two or three words in \
reply, the curtain was held back, and Irene entered. Victor, \
who had not seen her since the day of his marriage, was startled \
by her appearance. She looked so changed, so thin and white, \
and she came in so languidly, that his first words were the \
natural expression of a fear that she was ill. Irene replied, in a \
tone of unusual quietness, that she was very well; but her old \
vivacity seemed gone. Even the news of her baby niece only \
roused her to slight animation, though she asked if she might \
not see the child. \
\
\'93 Certainly,\'94 said Victor, \'91\'91as Coriander has kindly permitted \
it. Euphrosyne shall bring her to-morrow.\'94 \
\
Very uneasy thoughts troubled Victor on his way home, con- \
cerning the wisdom, and even the lawfulness, of his promise to \
Coriander. \
\
On communicating his difficulty to Sophronia, she answered \
that she had doubted from the first the lawfulness of the pro- \
mise, but\'92she thought that he ought to know best, and she dared \
not dictate to her husband, nor interfere between himself and \
his conscience. Still more perplexed, Victor consulted Ste- \
phanas, who heard his story patiently, and then said, \'93 \'91Thou \
hast done wrong, my son, in my judgment. \'91Thy wife is right, \
Ask thy Pagan friend to give thee back thy promise.\'94 \
\
So instead of sending Euphrosyne with Aglaia, Victor and \
Sophronia themselves walked to Coriander\'92s house, the latter \
carrying the infant. Victor was ushered into one peristyle, \
Sophronia into the other. The former was immediately joined \
\
\
134 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
by Coriander, but the latter waited long for the arrival of \
Irene. \
\
\'91 Coriander,\'94 said Victor, \'91I think I have done wrong, and \
I wish to tell you so. I have promised what I cannot perform, \
\'97-say rather, what I ought not to perform. Will you relieve \
me from the obligation of that promise ?\'94 \
\
\'93To what promise do you allude, Victor?\'94 asked Coriander \
in evident surprise at the tone of his friend\'92s remarks. \
\
\'93To the promise which I made you not to speak to Irene.\'97 \
Let me tell you first of all, that Sophronia herself has brought \
the child, and if you wish to prevent conversation between her \
and her sister, we had better adjourn at once to the other \
peristyle.\'94 \
\
\'93The baby will be the subject of the first half-hour\'92s conver- \
sation,\'94 said Coriander, smiling rather cynically. \'91\'91No need \
for that.\'94 \
\
\'93 But will you release me from that promise ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Do you mean that you wish to proselytise Irene?\'94 \
\
\'93I mean that I want to be left free to speak as circumstances \
may determine, if I am to be allowed to see her at all.\'94 \
\
Coriander reflected for a moment, his face growing graver as \
he did so. \
\
\'93T am sorry. In that case, I can only prevent all com- \
munication.\'94 \
\
Be it so,\'94 said Victor. \'91The sin will not then be on my \
conscience.\'94 \
\
\'93Sin !\'94 muttered Coriander, contemptuously, \
\
\'93Friend, if you knew that an African lion, fierce and power- \
ful, lay inside a deep cavern, at whose mouth a party of youths \
and maidens were dancing without thought of danger, would \
you warn them of their peril, or not?\'94 \
\
**T suppose I should.\'94 \
\
\'93And can you blame me because I wish to save my sister \
and my dearest friend from the peril of soul in which I believe \
them to be?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 By no means,\'94 returned Coriander, not unkindly. \'93I do \
not blame you for acting on your cunvictions\'97every honest \
man must do that. I only wonder how you can entertain con- \
\
\
THROUGH THE STORM. 135 \
\
\
victions of so absurd a nature: and as your theories are not \
mine, I do not wish my wife to imbibe them.\'94 \
\
* Do you know what my convictions are ?\'94 \
\
\'93T know that your sect is everywhere held in disrepute, \
and that you worship a crucified malefactor.\'94 \
\
\'93Do you know on what evidence we act?\'94 \
\
\'93No!\'94 said Coriander, with a short, scornful laugh. \'91 Nor \
do I care.\'94 \
\
\'93Yet you shrink not from pronouncing \'91absurd\'92 a belief of \
which you know no more than this?\'94 \
\
\'93Vour position\'97in a despised minority\'97shows it to be so. \
The most are naturally the wisest. Why can you not be con- \
tent with a religion which satisfies the mass of mankind?\'94 \
\
\'93Tf truth reside in the majority, then when the majority \
changes, the facts must change with it. Are you ready to \
commit yourself to that?\'94 \
\
\'93Facts! Religion is not facts, but opinions,\'94 \
\
\'93The religion which has not facts as its basis is a poor \
unsatisfying thing, and will never stand the strain of adversity \
or death.\'94 \
\
\'93You know no more than others! We are all children \
eroping in the dark: the wisest of us only know enough to cry \
for somebody to bring a lamp.\'94 \
\
\'93Pardon me. The wisest of you, possibly, For us the lamp \
has been brought, by Him who is the Light of the World.\'94 \
\
\'91Exactly !\'97that is just what I dislike. Why should you \
fancy yourselves so much better than other people?\'94 \
\
\'91We never do. \'91To think lowly of one\'92s self is one of the \
chief precepts of our religion.\'94 \
\
\'91What a mean-spirited set you must be! Yet you never \
cease assuring us that your religion is the best in the world.\'94 \
\
\'93You do us injustice, Coriander. It is the only one in the \
world. All others are to us mere irreligion. But 1 have yet to \
learn that magnifying one\'92s God is the same as magnifying \
oneself.\'94 \
\
\'91There you go, on your waxen wings! We never parade our \
religion, and worry you to join us.\'94 \
\
\'91Indeed! My knowledve of history must be at fault. I \
\
\
136 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
thought Nero Czsar had impaled, drowned, beheaded, hung, \
burnt, and thrown to wild beasts, a tolerable number of our \
faith.\'94 \
\
\'91Well, well! I never burnt, hung, drowned, impaled, nor \
beheaded you!\'94 \
\
\'91You have been the kindest of my friends, and I can never \
forget it. But can you not see, that believing what I believe, \
this is only an additional motive to my anxiety to rescue you \
from destruction ?\'94 \
\
\'91* What do you believe ?\'94 said Coriander, more thoughtfully \
than was his wont. \'91Come now, let me hear it.\'94 \
\
Victor was silent for a moment, engaged in ejaculatory \
prayer. Then he said,\'97\'93TI will tell you. We believe that \
there is one Gud, and none other, all-powerful, omnipresent, \
omniscient, perfect, eternal.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93* A\'92 conception worthy of Socrates! Go on.\'94 \
\
\'93This God was the Creator of earth and heaven, and all that \
therein is, including man. He made the first man perfect and \
pure, after His own righteous and holy image. But being left \
open to temptation, this man fell. He disobeyed the one com- \
mand of His Creator. Ever since then, we, the children of \
this man, have been born imperfect and impure,\'97liable to the \
wrath of God upon all sinful and disobedient. But He, of his \
infinitely rich grace and unutterable mercy, sent into the \
world His only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to take upon Him \
the nature of man, and to suffer in our stead. The Father \
gave the Son,\'97the Son gave Himself for this work. By the \
infinite merit of his Godhead, he bore away all the penalty \
due to those sinners of whom, by His manhood, He made \
Himself the representative. He that believeth in Him hath no \
condemnation. But he that believeth not, must be content to \
bear the penalty of his sin himself; and that penalty is the \
worm that dieth not, and the fire that is not quenched.\'94 \
\
\'93You have more to say for yourselves, I must allow, than I \
thought you had,\'94 said Coriander, still thoughtfully. \'91Stull \
yours appears to me a very inconsistent and incomprehensible \
religion.\'94 \
\
\'93It must necessarily do so to all unbelievers.\'94 \
\
\
THROUGH THE STORM. 137 \
\
\
\'93Truly, I think so. Two Gods, and yet only One! In- \
finite mercy, and a fire that is not quenched! The innocent \
punished, and the guilty pardoned without merit !\'97How do \
you reconcile all this, Marcellus Victor ? \'94 \
\
\'93T do not reconcile it. God has revealed it, and the \
reconciling of it I leave to Him. It is above my finite \
comprehension. \
\
\'93You believe, then, what you confess you do not understand?\'94 \
\
\'93Do not you? How isa fire lighted?\'94 \
\
\'93 By a tinder-box, I suppose.\'94 \
\
\'93And how is it that steel and flint, being struck together, \
produce fire?\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, because\'97well\'97I really don\'92t know. How should I?\'94 \
\
*\'93* Yet you believe the existence of fire?\'94 \
\
\'91*My senses give me evidence of it. Now, that is exactly \
my objection to all systems of religion apart from philosophy. \
You who prate about gods, whether you call your divinity Zeus \
or Christ, believe something of which your senses give you no \
evidence.\'94 \
\
\'93Well, it is not of much use to dispute the question. \
Where is Sophronia ?\'94 \
\
\'91Oh, she is with Irene\'97let us go to them.\'94 \
\
\'93How do you know she is with Irene?\'94 \
\
\'93Why, you told me yourself,\'94 said Coriander, stopping and \
looking astonished. \
\
\'91\'93\'a2 How does that convince you?\'94 \
\
\'93Oh, that is a question of fact. Don\'92t try to come round \
aman in that way Ofcourse I believe a fact when I am told \
it by a man of truth and honour.\'94 \
\
\'91And my truth and honour are apparent to your senses ?\'94 \
\
Amusement and annoyance struggled for the mastery in \
Coriander\'92s countenance. Before his reply was ready, Irene \
came in, preceding Sophronia, and carrying Aglaia. She was \
more animated, but not less pale, than on the previous day. \
The conversation now became general. But on Victor's \
departure he said in a low tone to his friend,\'97\'93 Then, remem- \
ber, I am released from my promise.\'94 \
\
\'93So be it, if it distress you. I must take other measures.\'94 \
\
\
138 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93OQ Victor!\'94 cried Sophronia when they had left the house, \
\'91how wretchedly ill Irene looks! Didst thou not think so?\'94 \
\
\'91I thought so more yesterday,\'94 was Victor\'92s answer. \
\
\'91My unhappy sister!\'94 sighed Sophronia. \'91She would not \
hear a word from me of the past, nor of the faith.\'94 \
\
The sum which Victor offered to return to Coriander was \
declined in such a manner that he could not repeat the attempt. \
\
It was not until Aglaia could run and prattle, and had been \
joined by a sister whose name was Berenice, that Camilla \
received any further communications from her mother or \
Marcia. Letters came at last\'97Marcia\'92s keenly bitter; Aurelia\'92s \
sternly mournful. She told Camilla that she would make one \
more effort\'97she did not explain what\'97to rescue her from the \
degradation to which she had voluntarily lowered herself; if \
this failed, she would thenceforth have but one daughter, and \
Camilla must be content to know that she was regarded by \
mother and sister as one dead. \
\
Meanwhile, Camilla found that she was slowly, but surely, \
mounting the ladder of professional fame. She had already \
sold several paintings, the Achilles first, for which a very hand- \
some sum was paid. It was not until after a long interval \
that she discovered that the unknown patron who had laid the \
foundation of her fortune by this first purchase was Coriander \
himself, at the solicitation of Irene. \
\
It was towards the close of autumn. Victor had been on \
business to the other end of the city, and feeling loth to go home \
on so beautiful an evening, he had strolled down to the sea- \
shore, where he stood watching the play of the waves. The \
repetition of his own name startled him from his reverie, and \
looking up he saw that Irene stood apparently alone beside \
him. \'91Two slaves, whom Victor did not see, were at a little \
distance behind. \
\
\'93Trene!\'94 he cried. \'93I never thought of seeing you here.\'94 \
\
\'93T often come down here,\'94 she said in a dreamy tone, as if the \
spirit of the slow soft tide breaking upon the shingle had passed \
into her. \'91 Some of my happiest hours have been passed on \
the shore.\'94 \
\
\
\'91\'91 Are your hours generally very happy ones, Irene?\'94 \
\
\
THROUGH THE STORM. 139 \
\
\
\'91Not as you consider it, perhaps.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T know of no happiness apart from Christ. If you do, I \
should like to hear of it.\'94 \
\
\'91Do you talk to everybody in that way?\'94 \
\
\'91Tam afraid not. Il suppose I ought todo. But I am not \
so interested in everybody as in you.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91T suppose you would like to see me a Christian ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T should, Irene, from my very soul!\'94 \
\
\'93 You never will,\'94 she said, listlessly twisting a long strip of \
seaweed into fantastic forms. \
\
\'93\'91T am afraid not,\'94 said Victor, very sadly. \
\
Irene dropped the seaweed, and turned her full face towards \
Victor. \
\
\'93 Marcellus Victor!\'94 she said in a tone deeper and graver \
than was her wont, \'93what do you mean by tempting me in this \
way? Do you not know that if I were to become what you \
wish me, my husband would turn me out of doors, and all my \
acquaintances would cry shame upon me?\'94 \
\
\'93 And one thing more, dear Irene, which you have omitted. \
\'91There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one \
sinner that repenteth.\'92 God would rejoice; and Christ would \
rejoice; and \'91the holy angels would rejoice; and all the Church \
would rejoice: for the life to come is more than this life; and \
the death to come is more than this death!\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T have made my choice,\'94 she said, looking away again to \
the sea. \
\
\'91\'a2 When man or woman chooses evil in this life,\'94 said Victor, \
\'91we say, \'91Unhappy soul!\'92 How much more should it be said \
for her who hath chosen evil for the life which is to come, \
through the ages of the ages ?\'94 \
\
Irene rose from her seat on a fragment of rock. \
\
* All do not think as you do,\'94 she said. \
\
\'91\'91Tt matters not what men think, but what will be,\'94 was the \
sorrowful reply. \
\
\'93 Victor, cease tormenting me!\'94 cried Irene with a burst of \
passion. \'93TI tell you, I have chosen my path, and I will pursue \
it. Let me alone! Farewell!\'94 \
\
\'93Not lost yet,\'94 was Sophronia\'92s comment when Victor nar- \
\
\
T4o THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEIL \
\
\
rated the interview. \'91I believe the Lord will yet bring her \
back\'97that He is striving with her even now. The new birth \
of the Spirit is no painless thing.\'94 \
\
The autumn passed away, and the winter came: but no \
more was heard of Irene. \
\
\
On a very dark and stormy winter evening, Sophronia and \
Camilla were sitting in one of the small chambers surrounding \
the peristyle. Aglaia and Berenice had been laid to sleep in \
the adjoining room, and they heard Victor\'92s step as he crossed \
the outer peristyle, and came up the steps. \
\
\'93Ts it not very wet?\'94 asked Sophronia. \
\
\'93Extremely wet, and the wind is violent beyond any night \
that I remember since we came to Corinth. I told Euphrosyne \
to bring a brazier of charcoal.\'94 \
\
Euphrosyne brought the brazier, and after it the supper, and \
family prayer followed. Camilla retired to her own rooms, and \
Sophronia was on the point. of doing the same, when a low \
wailing cry reached them from the street. \
\
\'91\'a2 Somebody is in trouble,\'94 said Sophronia. \
\
\'93What was it that cried?\'94 answered Victor. \
\
\'91Does it matter what it is?\'94 responded she. \'93It was at the \
side door\'97lI entreat thee to see what it is, for the wind blows so \
fiercely that Euphrosyne will scarcely be able to stand against it.\'94 \
\
*\'91T am sure she will not,\'94 said Victor; \'93I will go.\'94 \
\
It was not easy to draw back the bolt, and when at last he \
succeeded in doing so, the wind swept keenly up the passage \
and across the peristyle. Victor opened the door wide, and \
looked out into the night. And there\'97drenched to the skin \
through the thin covering which enfolded her, the rain beating \
pitilessly upon her unsheltered head,\'97with dishevelled hair, \
on foot, alone, and evidently in some dire distress\'97lay the \
beautiful Irene. \
\
\
CHAPTER XIV. \
\
\
IRENE, \
\
\
\'93* Man, what is this, and why art thou despairing ? \
God shall fergive thee all but thy despair.\'94 \
\'97FRrepvEric W. H. Myzrs. \
\
\
 HATEVER were the nature of the calamity which \
had befallen Irene, it was plain that it had for the \
moment stunned the faculties both of body and \
mind. Victor carried her into the peristyle, and \
laid her down on one of the mattresses spread in its recesses, \
which answered the purpose of the eastern divan and of the \
western sofa. The only sign of life which she gave was to bury \
her head in the folds of her wet robes. \
\
\'93Trene!\'94 cried Sophronia. \'91 My child, you are dripping wet!\'94 \
\
Trene did not move. \
\
\'91\'a2Yet her alone, for her soul is vexed within her,\'92\'92 \
Victor in a low tone. \
\
\'91Tt will kill her!\'94 answered Sophronia under her breath: \
but she obeyed her husband\'92s bidding, only saying in a soft \
yoice\'97\'91 God comfort thee, my sister!\'94 \
\
Irene did not rise, nor lift her head. Only one word came \
quivering in a long-drawn sob from the white lips\'97\'91 God!\'94 \
\
They waited, and she lay still, some minutes longer. At last \
she roused herself suddenly, and lifting up a white, haggard \
face, where horror and fear seemed to dilate the large dark eyes, \
she spoke passionately, hurriedly, as if she wanted to get her \
story told before her strength should fail. \
\
\'93S\'e9fia, I am ruined, body and soul! Coriander died yester- \
day morning. His niece, Zo\'e9, and her husband, took possession \
last night of all belonging to him, and to-night they have turned \
\
\
said \
\
\
142 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
- \
\
\
me out of the house without so much as a change of clothing. \
Had he not freed me by a legal process, they would have sold \
me along with my own slaves! They refuse to recognise any \
claim of mine on his estate; and they are rich and can employ \
lawyers, and I cannot. I come to you for shelter, since neither \
in earth nor heaven is there any other shelter for me. My \
other friends are like Zo\'e9\'97they flattered me while I was rich, \
and now that I am poor they will not look upon me. I have \
been spurned from the doors of women who last week would \
have kissed my robe. Man will have none of me, since I can \
give nothing back; and God will have none of me, for I have \
denied Him. But for the sake of our common blood, which I \
never denied, and for His sake whom you serve, and who was \
crucified for you, grant me a chamber in the house which my \
husband gave you, for the few days before I die, and spare me \
a morsel of bread such as men cast to their slaves!\'94 \
\
Irene\'92s head sank down again as her voice ceased. \
\
\'93 Beloved,\'94 said Sophronia\'92s sweet tones, \'93 praise be to the \
Lord who hath brought thee home! Thou shalt dwell with us, \
and share all that we have; and say not that God will have \
none of thee, when He hath prepared for thee a shelter among \
hearts that love thee. Rise, my sister, and let me lead thee to \
the rest thou needest sorely.\'94 \
\
Irene made no reply, but she permitted Sophronia to lift her \
from the ground, and to lead her into a bedchamber where in \
a few minutes a bed was made ready, and she lay down in \
physical comfort at least, with a kiss and a blessing from the \
sister who was as ready to take Irene to her heart in the mid- \
night of her adversity, as she had ever been in the noonday of \
her wealth and splendour. Sophronia then went to seek her \
husband, whom she found in the outer peristyle. \
\
\'93Have I said well, Victor, and not contrary to thy will?\'94 \
\
\'93When did I ever hear my Sophronia speak otherwise than \
rightly? But, dearest, it cannot be for long.\'94 \
\
\'93I do not think it will be long,\'94 replied Sophronia sadly. \
\
\'93Tt matters little whether it be long or short, if the Shepherd \
will bring home the lost sheep: and I think the lost sheep is \
coming home.\'94 \
\
\
IRENE. 143 \
\
\
When they saw her again on the following morning, they could \
scarcely recognise the Irene who had received them on their \
first coming to Corinth. The beauty, the vivacity, the airy grace, \
which had once distinguished her, were gone. But gone with \
them were the apathy, the scornful pride, the stubborn unbelief. \
Physically, she was very ill; morally, she was gentle, humble, \
docile as a little child. There was no more unwillingness to \
hear the truth\'97no more oppositions of science falsely so called. \
The meek depression of manner was as little like the brilliant \
beauty whom they recalled in her superb saloons, as were the \
thin, pallid, pain-worn features. Only on one point she still, \
though quietly enough, refused to listen, and put away from her \
the comfort which Sophronia strove to pour into her wounded \
soul. She still maintained that God could have no mercy for \
her. That God was, and that He was the rewarder of them \
that diligently seek Him, she now conceded in an instant. But \
no words could move Irene from her conviction, that those who \
had not sought Him, who had denied His being, and stifled \
their own convictions for so long, had no claim to His mercy. \
By degrees they learned that Coriander\'92s last iilness had been \
very short; that Zo\'e9 and her husband had been staying in the \
house at the time; that Adrastus, Zo\'e9\'92s husband, being himself \
learned in the law, and an unscrupulous man, had informed \
Irene, who was too ignorant to be aware whether he spoke the \
truth or not, that she, having once been a slave, had no claim \
whatever upon any part of her husband\'92s property, which \
belonged to Zo\'e9 as his heir-at-law: and that Irene might think \
herself well off that she was permitted to go in peace with her \
own liberty and the clothes which she wore. To add to her \
misery and degradation, Zo\'e9 and Adrastus pretended to dispute \
the validity of her marriage, though Irene added, with a momen- \
tary flash of her old animation, that they had witnessed the cere- \
mony themselves, and had always paid her marked respect \
during the life of Coriander. Victor took up the question ina \
rather more pugnacious style than his wife approved, though \
with her usual reticence Sophronia forbore to tell him so. He \
entered with great interest into the particulars of Irene\'92s story : \
declared that he was certain that Adrastus had imposed upon \
\
\
144 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
her, and that she Aad a claim on her husband\'92s estate : and ke \
would have gone to a lawyer at once about it, had not Irene \
herself prevented him. \
\
\'91No, dear brother,\'94 she said, \'93I thank you equally for your \
intended kindness. But take me not back from this rest to the \
storm ; and take me not back from the dust before God\'92s foot- \
stool to the whirlwind of the world. What are wealth and rank \
now tome? My life is ebbing away from me; let me die in \
peace of mind with respect to things earthly, if I may not in \
peace of the spirit with respect to things heavenly.\'94 \
\
Victor looked at the white wearied face before him, and said \
nomore. He felt that she had spoken the truth as concerned \
her own life. He held a consultation with Sophronia; and \
the following day he held a second with Stephanas. His object \
was to persuade the Elder to come and converse with Irene. \
\
It was a difficult task which lay before Victor and Sophronia, \
though not so difficult as it would have been at a rather later \
period in the history of the Church. When \'93cross of wood and \
bishop of gold\'94 had given place to \'93cross of gold and bishop of \
wood,\'94 and the erewhile simple elders of the Church had become \
lords over God\'92s heritage, the \'91\'93\'91lapsed\'94 were treated with a \
severity which in many cases amounted to cruelty, and was \
utterly unworthy to represent Him who stretcheth forth His \
hands all the day, with \'93Yet return again to Me, saith the \
Lord.\'94 But in the earliest ages this state of things had scarcely \
arisen, though even then it was needful for an Apostle to remind \
the Corinthian Church that the punishment was sufficient, and \
that they ought not to leave the repentant brother to be \
\'91swallowed up of overrnuch sorrow.\'94 Happily for Irene, the \
presiding Bishop at this time was a man of particularly tender \
heart. While he shook his head as sternly as was in him on \
hearing of a case of apostacy, yet he softened visibly when he \
found that the recalcitrant sinner was not only deeply penitent, \
but a dying girl: and after a little show of hard-heartedness, he \
consented to come and see her, since she was not able to plead, \
as she ought to have done, kneeling at the closed door of the \
baptistery. When he came the next day, the sight of Irene\'92s face \
seemed to dry up the last drop of indignation in his heart. \
\
\
IRENE. 145 \
\
\
\'93Who art thou, my daughter?\'94 he said, when he had seated \
himself beside her couch. \
\
\'93T am the worst of sinners,\'94 said Irene in a low voice. \'93I \
have sinned against light and knowledge; I have stifled my \
convictions, and have denied my God.\'94 \
\
** Dost thou desire salvation ?\'94 \
\
\'93With all my heart I do.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Art thou able to do any good works to the saving of thy soul?\'94 \
\
\'91\'93* Not one.\'94 \
\
\'93\'91Canst thou satisfy God\'92s justice for thy sins?\'94 \
\
\'91No, verily.\'94 \
\
\'93Then it seems to me,\'94 said Stephanas quietly, \'93that Christ \
will have to save thee, for there appears to be no other way.\'94 \
\
\'93Tt is too late!\'94 was the sorrowful response. \
\
*\'93 Dost thou believe in Christ, the Saviour of the world?\'94 \
\
\'93* Assuredly I do.\'94 \
\
\'91But thou art not among the saved! How is that?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91T have sinned too deeply.\'94 \
\
\'93Then He cannot save great sinners, only little ones? My \
daughter, put not this dishonour on the Lord. If His blood can- \
not avail for thee, where is its efficacy? If His merits are not \
sufficient for thee, where is His righteousness? If His mercy \
cannot extend to thee, where is His omnipotence ?\'94 \
\
\'93You mistake me, Elder. I said, not that I doubted the \
power of the Lord.\'94 \
\
\'91\'92Then what dost thou doubt?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Whether He zz// save me.\'94 \
\
\'91That, then, is doubt not of His power, but of His love! \
Child, if I were under the terrible necessity of disbelieving in \
some part of my Lord\'92s perfection, I had rather doubt His \
might than His compassion! Look at me. I have not seen \
thee, nor known thee for one hour. Yet to save thy soul, and \
to give thee peace, I would yield the few months of life that I \
may yet have to live. Canst thou, darest thou say that the \
Lord is less merciful than man?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Elder, I have not scorned, and derided, and denied chee / I \
have not received from thee countless benefits, and yet said after- \
wards, when thou wert looking to me for friendship, \'91I know not \
\
K \
\
\
146 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
this man!\'92 I have not wronged and ill-used thy servants because \
they were thine. I have done this, and far more, to Him.\'94 \
\
*\'92So did Peter the Apostle, and Paul.\'94 \
\
\'91Not like me.\'94 \
\
\'91No, for they were worse than thou art, so far as I can learn. \
But tell.me, when did Christ say unto thee from Heaven that \
thou wert not of those for whom He died? I will believe it \
after that, but not before. Itis the contrite heart the Lord loveth. \
It is him that cometh whom He hath promised not to cast out. \
It is to the weary and heavy-laden that He offers rest.\'94 \
\
\'93Weary and_heavy-laden!\'92\'94 sighed Irene. \'91Iam that!\'94 \
\
\'93Tf thou art that, my daughter, go to Him and claim His \
promise. He made it forthee. He holdeth it out to thee. He \
is waiting for thee. Wilt thou keep Him waiting?\'94 Irene \
made no answer, but great tears crept from her closed eyes. \
Stephanas thought that enough had been said for the moment. \
He rose, blessed Sophronia and Camilla, and took his leave. \
\
Day after day succeeded, and Irene grew weaker and weaker. \
Sophronia was indefatigable in her ministrations both to the \
diseased body and the yet more diseased mind. She read to \
her out of the Gospel of St. Matthew and the Epistles to the \
Corinthians, of which she had procured a copy by a Christian \
scribe, the originals being laid up inthe church. But for a time \
everything seemed to do more harm than good. Irene took up \
just the condemnatory portion of every passage. When So- \
phronia read the Beatitudes to her she said, \
\
\'abStop, dear Sophronia: it all condemns me.\'94 \
\
\'91* How so, my sister ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Because Jam not meek; I am not pure in heart ; Iam not \
merciful ; nay, instead of being persecuted for righteousness\'92 \
sake, I have myself persecuted the righteous.\'94 \
\
** But thou art poor in spirit, as thy words at this moment \
show ; thou art a mourner for sin; thou art hungered and \
athirst after righteousness,\'94 \
\
\'93\'91T am not righteous.\'94 \
\
\'91* There is none righteous: Christ is our righteousness.\'94 \
\
Irene turned on her couch with a sorrowful shake of the head, \
as if it might all be true for her sister, but not for her. \
\
\
IRENE. 17 \
The next morning Stephanas inquired how Irene was. \
\'91Just the same,\'94 answered Sophronia, mournfully. \'91 Elder, \
\
what shall I do? How can I win her to trust in Christ?\'94 \
\
*** Wait on the Lord,\'92\'94 he responded. \'91Thou canst not win \
her; that is the work of the Paraclete. Wait for the Lord, and \
pray always.\'94 \
\
\'93Have I not waited?\'94 she rejoined, with the tears which did \
not rise lightly in the eyes of Sophronia. \'91\'93 Have I not prayed \
\'97yea, through all the years since we were parted at Aleppo?\'94 \
\
\'93Then \'91wait on the Lord,\'92\'94 repeated Stephanas earnestly. \
\'93His ways are not our ways, but He never disappoints a soul \
that waiteth on Him.\'94 \
\
\'93There is no time to wait!\'94 she said with a sob. \
\
\'91** Daughter of earth,\'94 was the answer, \'93art thou afraid the \
Father of the Everlasting Age will be too late? \'91He that be- \
lieveth shall not make haste.\'92 \'91They shall not be ashamed \
that wait for Me.\'92 \'91Fear not; only beiieve.\'92\'94 \
\
\'91That evening Penelope was returning from the market (let it \
be remembered that the early Christians attended Divine service \
\
nearly every day) when, a few doors from Victor's house, she \
perceived two women, one evidently a stranger, and more \
handsomely dressed than the other. \'91The latter, recognised by \
Penelope as a woman whom she had frequently seen at the \
market, was just saying, \'91\'91 Indeed, I know not, but I will ask \
this damsel,\'94 in a low tone as if to herself\'92 On Penelope\'92s ap- \
proach she came forward and said, \'91\'91 Damsel, here is a lady, a \
stranger in this city, who cannot speak our language, and she \
desires to learn where to find the house of Marcellus Victor.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a9 Ask her to follow me,\'94 said Penelope. \'911 am the slave of \
the Lady Camilla, who dwelleth with the mistress of the house.\'94 \
\
The woman communicated this information in a foreign \
language to the lady, who, calling for some one from a distance, \
turned and accompanied Penelope. A third woman, dressed \
like a slave, appeared from a side-street, and followed her mis- \
tress at a respectful distance. Penelope would have asked the \
stranger\'92s name, but having no means of making the foreigner \
understand her, she could only indicate the way in silence. \
She went round to the side door, which led to a chamber com- \
municating with the women\'92s peristyle. \
\
\
148 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
\'93T pray you, gracious Lady,\'94 said Penelope, addressing Soph- \
ronia, \'93to speak to this stranger in her own tongue; for she\'97\'94 \
\
The explanation went no further. The work dropped from \
Sophronia\'92s hand as she rose, and from her lips in astonished \
accents broke the exclamation\'97\'93 Domina Aurelia!\'94 \
\
\'93Sophronia,\'94 said Aurelia in her old manner\'97a mixture of \
dignified selfpossession and condescension\'97\'91\'93I come to see \
my daughter. You are so changed I should scarcely have \
known you,\'94 she deigned to add. \
\
Sophronia\'92s manner had lost much of its old constraint, \
especially since her marriage; but the voice and words of \
Aurelia seemed to freeze her back into the old submissive reti- \
cent being whom she had once been. Fora moment her mien \
was no longer that of Victor\'92s wife and the mistress of his \
house, but that of the slave-girl of Aurelia Cotta at Pompeii. \
\
*\'91T am much changed, Domina,\'94 she said, in the low plain- \
tive tone which Aurelia knew well. \'93Suffer me to inform \
Domina Camilla.\'94 \
\
She crossed the peristyle to Camilla\'92s rooms, leaving Aurelia \
and Irene to cast furtive glances at each other, and each to \
wonder who the other could be. As Irene knew no Latin, and \
Aurelia no Greek, conversation was out of the question. Irene \
could only point to a seat with a momentary revival of her old \
graceful ease, and Aurelia took it with a motion of thanks, \
querying in her own mind who this ladylike girl could be who \
seemed soill. It also passed through her mind that snail-broth \
would be the very thing for her: but at this point of her re- \
flections the door was thrown hurriedly open, and with a cry of \
\'91\'a2 Mother! dearest Mother!\'94 Camilla rushed into her arms. \
\
For the first five minutes all Aurelia\'92s anger was forgotten. \
Every fond name was lavished on her youngest-born, in her \
delight at seeing her again: while the close clasp of Camilla\'92s \
arms round her mother\'92s neck spoke her feelings more eloquently \
than words. At length Aurelia\'92s mind reverted to the past. \
\
\'93 Now, Camilla, I am come to take you to Rome.\'94 \
\
Camilla raised her head from Aurelia\'92s breast, and said with \
a shudder, \'91*No, Mother! Ohno! no!\'94 \
\
\'93 Foolish child!\'94 said Aurelia. \'91I tell you I am come to \
take you back to Rome; and take you back to Rome I will, if \
\
\
c \
Ss \
E \
\'a3 \
\'b0 \
oO \
he \
om \
ge) Sf \
Ee \
Sey \
2a \
aS \
a \
o | \
a \
on \
ao \
aa \
23 \
S (S, \
ou \
a& \
u \
ee \
ee \
mu \
Za \
Si \
= \
2 \
= \
a) \
\
\
She went round to the s \
catin. \
\
\
150 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
I wait here a year for it. I do not wish to force your inclina- \
tions unkindly, but you must prepare yourself and reconcile \
your mind to going with me. Now no more about it at present. \
I am quite as self-willed as you are,\'94 \
\
\'93 But, Mother-\'97\'97\'97\'94 \
\
\'91No, I am not going to allow any conversation on that \
subject. I have laid my commands on you, but I am willing \
to give you a little time to reconcile yourself to them.\'97 \
Strophius and Marcia salute you, and are both very anxious to \
see you. Now tell me who is this lady on the mattress.\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'93The Lady Irene, one of the chief ladies of Corinth during \
the life of her husband. She is Sophronia\'92s sister.\'94 \
\
During the first three-quarters of Camilla\'92s explanation, the \
mercury in the thermometer of Aurelia\'92s good opinion rose very \
rapidly, But the last few words sent it down again to zero. \
\
\'93Fer sister !\'94 said Aurelia, again putting on her patronising \
air; \'93ah, poor thing! she looks very ill.\'94 \
\
\'91She is very ill. Irene, dear,\'94 added Camilla in Greek, \
\'91\'91this is my mother.\'94 \
\
\'91Tam glad to hear it,\'94 said Irene from her couch, quite uncon- \
scious of the low point at which she stood in the estimation of \
Aurelia. \'91I wish I were well enough, and rich enough, to make \
her welcome as I should have done of old in my own house.\'94 \
\
Camilla translated Irene\'92s remark, to which Aurelia replied, \
\'91\'a2 Vou had better thank her from me. One has to be civil to \
such people sometimes.\'94 \
\
\'91 Mother!\'94 said Camilla in amazement, \'93 you cannot have \
understood me! Has Marcianever spoken to you of Dominus \
Coriander and Domina Irene? Irene was as great a lady in \
Corinth as ever you yourself were in Pompeii !\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 Marcia certainly has spoken to me of Domina Irene, but I \
understood that she was very rich and beautiful: and she never \
told me that she was the sister of my slave. If she be, she \
must be a Jewess, I suppose, and I know of nothing lower than \
that. I suppose, then, Sophronia is a great lady here, and is \
called Domina when she is spoken toP\'94 asked Aurelia con- \
temptuously. \'93Is there a perpetual Saturnalia in this country, \
and do the slaves take the highest positions ?\'94 \
\
\
IRENE. 161 \
\
Camilla began to realise. as she had never done before, that \
she was now living in a different atmosphere from that of her \
early life, and that Aurelia had remained behind in the old \
climate.\'bb Her own estimate of her friends was so high that she \
had not calculated on her mother\'92s being so low. Jews had \
become very different in her eyes since she had learned to regard \
a Jew as her God and Saviour: and among the earliest Chris- \
tians, while respect was always paid to rank and office, mere \
wealth went for nothing, and the poorest brother in the faith \
was considered far more honourable than the richest or most \
accomplished heathen. Camilla felt half angry with Aurelia \
for her inability to see in a moment that which it had taken \
her some years to acquire ; and there was more of Pagan pride \
than Christian meekness in her next words. \
\
\'91** Of course she is addressed as the Lady Sophronia, and has \
as much right to the title as I have myself. Her parents were \
well-born and wealthy, and her husband owns this house.\'94 \
\
**T suppose you believe all they tell you,\'94 said Aurelia with a \
contemptuous smile, \'91\'91 Perhaps you expect me to thank my \
Lady Sophronia for all the condescending kindness which she \
has deigned to show my daughter?\'94 \
\
*T hope you will, Mother,\'94 said Camilla resolutely. \
\
Aurelia laughed. \'91I beg you to understand, Domina Camilla, \
that the society of slaves has not improved your manners. It \
is time I took you away, if you are to remain a gentlewoman.\'94 \
\
The entrance of Victor saved Camilla from a reply. He at \
once came forward to Aurelia, and addressed her in Latin, \
taking his own position as master of the house, and welcoming \
her toit. When Sophronia returned to the peristyle she devoutly \
hoped that Aurelia would consent to behave towards her with \
as much respect as she had shown to her husband. She mis- \
calculated the nature of the Roman lady, who was by no means \
ready to admit that her quondam slave could possibly. be \
elevated to an equality with herself. She styled her, indeed, \
\'93Lady Sophronia,\'94 but it was with so maliciously scornful an \
emphasis that poor Sophronia blushed painfully, and requested \
that she might be addressed as of old. \
\
\
CHAPTER XV. \
\
\
THE LOST FOUND. \
\
\
\'93Yea, through life, death, through sorrow and through sinning, \
He shall suffice me, for He hath sufficed : \
Christ is the end, for Christ was the beginning ; \
Christ the beginning, for the end is Christ.\'94 \
\'97FREDERICK W. H. Mvers. \
\
GCSEQHE next morning Camilla prepared as usual to attend \
\'934 EX: Divine service with Sophronia. Aurelia inquired \
4 where she was going, and learning that it was to the \
Christian church, peremptorily bade her daughter \
remain athome. After a moment\'92s hesitation, Camilla obeyed, \
brought her work into the peristyle, and sat down by Irene\'92s \
couch. Fora time they were all silent. At length Irene said \
in a faint voice,\'97 \
\
\'91Ts the Lady Aurelia a Pagan?\'94 \
\
\'93Yes,\'94 answered Camilla. \
\
\'93Tell her from me that I have been what she is, and that \
now I would willingly blot it out in my own blood. Let her \
hear from one as near the gates of death as she must be one \
day, that I am sure there is no safety nor true happiness outside \
of Christ, though He hath not made me a partaker thereof.\'94 \
\
Camilla rendered Irene\'92s words into Latin. \
\
\'91* Do you give her white snail broth?\'94 was Aurelia\'92s answer. \
\
A little annoyed at the slight put on the impressive words of \
the dying girl, Camilla returned a short negative. \
\
\'93Then send to the market for some white snails at once!\'94 \
said Aurelia energetically: \'91at least, if there be any in this \
country where everything seems to be turned upside down.\'94 \
\
\
THE LOST FOUND. 153 \
\
\
The sound of Irene\'92s voice made Camilla bend down again \
to her. \
\
\'93Say to the Lady Aurelia that I have tried, as did Solomon \
the King, the power of all else to satisfy. Rank will not do it; \
wealth will not do it; beauty will not do it. Friends and genius \
can only do it momentarily \'97they do not satisfy. I know \
Christ cam do it\'97where He pleases. Iam not worthy to pray \
for any, who can scarcely pray for myself; but you can pray for \
her that she may be brought home to the fold, and by a less \
dreary and terrible way than I am treading.\'94 \
\
Again Camilla translated the words of Irene. \
\
\'91\'91Why does she keep talking to me?\'94 said Aurelia, \'93Is \
she so wedded to her superstitions? I want to hear nothing of \
them.\'94 \
\
\'93You do not know anything of our faith, my mother,\'94 said \
Camilla. \
\
\'93T know as much as I have any wish to know!\'94 said \
Aurelia rather sharply. Don\'92t talk to me about it.\'94 \
\
And Camilla did not talk. \
\
Sophronia and Victor brought Stephanas home with them. \
Aurelia immediately asked who he was, and appeared to look \
on him with a mixture of contempt and curiosity. \'91\'91So that \
is one of the Christian priests!\'94 she said. \'91\'91 He is a bene- \
volent-looking old man. What a pity that he should be a \
prey to this low fanaticism !\'94 \
\
Stephanas sat down by the couch of Irene. \
\
* Well, my daughter!\'94 said he. \'93Still as dark as ever?\'94 \
\
* Still as dark, Elder,\'94 replied Irene sadly. \'93 And the night \
is very near. \'91The valley must be traversed, and there is none \
to bear the lamp.\'94 \
\
\'93 After night cometh day.\'94 \
\
\'93There is a night which has no day, but ends in the outer \
darkness.\'94 \
\
*\'91 And there is also a promise that \'91at evening-tide it shall be \
Tiehiks\'92\'94 \
\
\'93The evening-tide is come; and there is not light.\'94 \
\
Child!\'94 said the Elder, laying his hand upon her head, \
\'91for thou art but a child in years in respect of me, who like \
\
\
154 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII, \
\
\
the Apostle am Stephanas the Aged\'97listen to my voice this \
once, for I bring thee a message from the Lord. \'91As I live, \
saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of him \
that dieth: why will ye die?\'92\'94 \
\
\'93T would live, if I might,\'94 faintly responded Irene. \
\
\'93*What hinders? shall God the Justifier? shall Christ who died? \
shall the Holy Ghost that sanctifieth? \'91All things are ready\'92 \
\'97they-are waiting for thee. What is it that is not ready?\'94 \
\
\'91I cannot tell,\'94 said Irene, lifting her languid eyes to the \
face of the old man. \'93JI am ready.\'94 \
\
\'93 Nay, child, thou art not ready! Art thou not waiting till \
thou canst bring something in exchange for the great salvation ? \
Dost thou not think thyself too sinful for Christ to save? \'94 \
\
\'91*T know I am.\'94 \
\
\'93Then thou wouldst fain have some goodness of thine own \
to bring? Thou thinkest that hadst thou not sinned so deeply, \
He would have saved thee ?\'94 \
\
\'93*T hope He might.\'94 \
\
\'93Behold how by unbelief thou limitest the power and love \
of the Lord! Behold how by thine own righteousness thou \
art held back and kept away from Him!\'94 \
\
\'91\'91 My righteousness!\'94 said Irene very thoughtfully. \'91 Nay, \
Elder! How can a woman sinful as I am have any righteous- \
ness of her own?\'94 \
\
\'93 My child!\'94 said Stephanas tenderly, \'93there is a righteous- \
ness which would go to Christ with its goodness, but will not \
go to Christ with its sin. What doth He want of thee but thine \
own sinful self, in thy sin, just what thou art by naturee All \
the goodness is on His side, and must come from Him. If \
thou take not thy sin to Him, who was made an offering for \
sin, what hast thou to take?\'94 \
\
\'93\'a9 Elder! is that it?\'94 said Irene, her face lighting up as \
with a sunbeam. \'91May I take myself and my sin to Christ, \
however great it be?\'94 \
\
\'93 Mayest? Thou must. What else hast thou to offer?\'94 \
\
\'93\'91 Nothing\'97nothing !\'94 said Irene earnestly. \
\
\'91\'91 Then how canst thou ever go to Him at all, except with \
all thy sin? And He shall cast it all into the depths of the \
\
\
THE LOST FOUND, 155 \
\
\
sea. God can never find the sins which Christ hath thus borne \
away.\'94 \
\
And Irene only said, \'91* Amen!\'94 \
\
In the evening of that day she was restored to the com- \
munion of the Church of Christ. \
\
Three nights later came that other change, which all around \
her had expected forso long. So softly, so peacefully she sank \
to sleep, that the exact moment of her departure was not \
known to any of the watchers. \
\
\
Aurelia stood with Sophronia and Camilla by the coffin of \
Irene. \
\
\'91\'93\'91Unhappy girl!\'94 she said in a compassionate tone. \'91She \
must have suffered a great deal before she reached this last \
deprivation of all. It may be that even the eternal sleep is \
preferable to intense suffering. And it is possible too\'97some \
philosophers think so, I believe\'97that you were right in trying \
to confirm her faith in whatever religion she professed. It \
matters little, of course, in what religion one dies; and to be \
comforted in sinking into the last sleep is no doubt desirable. \
It can make no difference afterwards.\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Our sister shall rise again,\'94 responded Camilla. \'93 Mother, \
dear, death is no endless sleep, but the beginning of another \
life, which is one of eternal bliss to those who know the Lord, \
and who shall abide with Him for ever.\'94 \
\
Vou believe that ?\'94 said Aurelia scornfully. \
\
\'93T do believe it, and have confessed it before the Church.\'94 \
\
\'91When will you be ready to go with me to Rome ?\'94 \
\
\'ab Never\'97if you mean by that, to cease being a Christian.\'94 \
\
Aurelia took Camilla\'92s hand, and led her across the peristyle \
to her own rooms. \
\
\'91\'a2 Now, Camilla, we must come to an understanding on this \
subject, and better early than late. You have had time to \
make up your mind. Are you ready to return?\'94 \
\
No.\'94 \
\
\'93 Are you content to be regarded by me and your sister as \
dead?\'94 \
\
\
156 THE SLAVE GIRL OF .POMPEN. \
\
\
\'93 Better so than that I should be found missing among the \
disciples of Christ at the Great Day.\'94 \
\
\'93Camilla, I entreat you to come!\'94 \
\
\'91\'93\'91 Mother, if it were only a question of residence in one \
place or another, much as I am attached to my friends here, \
I would not have said a word, but would have obeyed you \
without a murmur. You are my mother. But from your own \
words it is evident that your object in commanding my return \
is to win me away from the faith to the worship of the Roman \
idols. I dare not put myself into temptation. I have walked \
in the light too long to be unable to see the difference between \
that and darkness. I know too well the power that you have \
overme. I cannot go back.\'94 \
\
**T am unable to comprehend this fanaticism which has \
seized you!\'94 exclaimed Aurelia. \'91\'93 Before you learned any- \
thing of this superstition, you were docile and obedient. Can \
that be atrue or good religion which prompts a child to oppose \
her parent? or can you imagine you are doing right in dis- \
obeying me?\'94 \
\
\'93Tt gives me very great pain to oppose you,\'94 began Camilla. \
\
\'93Not enough to prevent your doing it!\'94 interposed Aurelia \
bitterly. . \
\
\'93Mother, dear mother! if the contest were between your \
wishes and my own, or even between your wishes and what \
I fancied to be right, having merely my own judgment to guide \
me, I would not say another word. But it is between your \
command and the command of God. Every morning and \
evening I pray in the words of Christ, \'91Lead us not into \
temptation.\'92 How can I offer that prayer if I deliberately \
expose myself to the temptation ?\'94 \
\
\'91\'91Camilla, do you know that I have treated you in a very \
different way from that of most mothers? Do you know that \
nine out of ten women would have simply laid on you their \
commands to return, and refused to listen to any explanation \
or opposition? I have been very gentle and lenient with you. \
What are you that you should set yourself up above Marcia, \
above even me, and tell us, as if you were the wisest of philo- \
sophers that we are wrong, and that you are right? You would \
\
\
THE LOST FOUND, 157 \
\
\
not have dared to do so three years ago. Then, indeed, you \
were a good and obedient daughter: but now, it seems as \
though the Camilla who was my child had truly perished at \
Pompeii, and some new and malignant being had assumed her \
form. How dare you defy me in this manner?\'94 \
\
The tears were fast filling Camilla\'92s eyes. Her mother\'92s last \
speech distressed her intensely, for it reflected not only on \
herself, but on her religion, Was it indeed true that in becom- \
ing a Christian she had become disobedient and unloving ?\'97 \
and if so, could she be right in her decision? Had not Christ \
Himself said that those Pharisees who allowed a man to refrain \
from helping his parents in their poverty on the plea that his \
wealth was sacred to God, were setting at nought God\'92s com- \
mandments, that they might keep their own tradition? Where \
did the point come, where was the line drawn, within which to \
obey her mother was to obey God, and without which to yield to \
Aurelia\'92s persuasions was to apostatise from Christ? Camilla \
wavered, Might it not be her higher duty to.goto Rome, and \
to live the life of faith there? Assuredly it was the harder one. \
Then other words came flashing on her memory like lightning. \
\'91\'93T am come to set a man at variance against his father, and \
the daughter against her mother.\'94 \'91If a man come to Me, \
and hate not his father and mother. . . yea, and his own life \
also, he cannot be My disciple.\'94 When could such a precept \
be put in practice if not now? How could she have any \
certainty that if she went to Rome, she would be allowed to \
attend Christian rites? Could she rely on the protection of \
God, after placing herself voluntarily in the position of the out- \
cast and backslider P \
\
The battle raged wildly in Camilla\'92s soul. Aurelia saw the \
struggle, and like a wise woman was silent. She knew that \
this gave her the best chance. \
\
At last Camilla turned to her. \
\
\'91\'a2 Mother! it is with you, not me, that the decision rests. If \
I go with you to Rome, I go as a Christian\'97a confessed \
Christian, and your whole world must know that I am a Chris- \
tian. If it is not to be so, I remain here. Choose for me.\'94 \
\
\'91Camilla! you cannot be somad! Do you suppose that I \
\
\
138 THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
shall deliberately proclaim to all my acquaintances that my \
youngest daughter is no better than a lunatic?\'94 \
\
\'91I do not ask you to proclaim anything. I will make the \
proclamation myself. I only beg you to understand that if I \
go to Rome, I must and shall make it.\'94 \
\
\'93That is your last word?\'94 \
\
\'91Yes, Mother, my last word.\'94 \
\
\'93Then if you have made up your mind to be such a \
miserable fool as that, you had better stay where you are. I do \
not wish to be branded with disgrace, and probably brought \
before the tribunals, because my daughter chooses to set up \
her crude and youthful fancies in opposition to the mature \
judgment of the mother whom she ought to find at once her \
virtue and her pleasure in obeying.\'94 \
\
\'91Mother, dear Mother, it is not my fancies which I seek to \
follow! I must obey the Lord.\'94 \
\
\'91Very well. That shows what your new religion is worth. \
It is a system of proud, puffed-up stubbornness, and not of \
virtue.\'94 \
\
\'93Mother! you\'97\'97\'94 \
\
\'91That will do,\'94 said Aurelia, coldly. \'91 Lelia Camilla, my \
youngest daughter, whom I loved best of all my kin, died in \
the eruption at Pompeii. What does it matter to me that \
there chances to be a maiden among the votaries of a mean \
sect of low fanatics at Corinth, who calls herself by my \
daughter's name? Henceforth, Domina, we are strangers. I \
shall return to Rome. I thank the immortals I have yet one \
daughter!\'94 \
\
And Aurelia walked out of the room, leaving Camilla to \
weep for a few minutes as though her heart were broken. \
\
On the following day Aurelia quitted the house. She took \
a cold leave of Sophronia and Victor, but scarcely deigned to \
utter a word of farewell to Camilla, who bent down with many \
tears to kiss her robe. They supposed that she returned to \
Rome, but years elapsed before they heard of her again. \
\
It was long before the even and peaceful tenor of their lives \
was any further disturbed. A little boy was added to the \
family, to whom Victor laughingly declared that he should be \
\
\
THE LOST FOUND. 159 \
\
\
very happy to resign half of his peristyle. His business con- \
tinued to prosper, and Sophronia found means to buy additional \
slaves, whom she much needed. The idea that there could be \
anything objectionable in slavery had not yet dawned on these \
early Christians, though their slaves had a far happier lot than \
those of the Pagans. Camilla went on painting, sometimes \
able to sell her pictures at a high price, sometimes finding it \
for a time impossible to dispose of them. \'91They were called \
in turn to mourn the deaths of Stephanas and Priscilla, the \
position of the latter being conferred upon Rhoda. Aglaia and \
Berenice grew of an age to assist their mother, and sometimes \
Camilla, in whose profession Aglaia showed much interest, and \
she was delighted to be summoned to the studio to assist in \
the grinding and mixing of colours\'97a work which a classical \
artist did for himself. Andif the youthful Marcellus did some- \
times surreptitiously creep into that chamber when empty, and \
exercise his budding artistic tendencies by bestowing on the \
scarcely-finished \'91\'91 Parting of Hector and Andromache\'94 a dab \
of red lead on the point of Andromache\'92s nose,\'97or embroider \
a blue garment with a yellow pattern, not of superior execution, \
\'97or improve the tone of the purple carefully prepared on the \
palette by a liberal addition of oxide of chromium,\'97it was \
perhaps no more than was to be expected from a gentleman \
whose extremely lively propensities caused equal astonishment \
and anxiety to his quiet mother. \
\
\
Twenty years had elapsed since the death of Irene and the \
departure of Aurelia. Along the street in which stood the little \
Christian church, two women were slowly walking. One of \
them, who was middle-aged, wore a falling hood upon her \
head; while the other, who walked with difficulty, was clad in \
the white robe of baptism. \
\
* Are you happy, my child?\'94 said the latter. \'93\'91 My \
mother\'92 I might almost call you.\'94 \
\
\'91\'a2T was \'91never so happy in my life before, dearest Mother. \
I feel as if life had been incomplete until to-day. For \
twenty years I have prayed most earnestly that you might be \
\
\
1\'80o THE SLAVE GIRL OF POMPEII. \
\
\
brought home to the fold of Christ; and He hath granted me \
that which I requested.\'94 \
\
\'93I owe you an infinite debt, my daughter; for I should \
never have cared to know anything about Christ at first, but \
from my curiosity to know the doctrines which had so strange \
an effect on you, for which purpose I went to hear secretly the \
preaching of Ignatius ; and I should never have come here but \
for your sister\'92s death, and the second marriage of Strophius, \
which made his house no longer home to me: and by that \
time I knew enough of the faith to see that you were not the \
disobedient daughter I had thought you, but the faithful servant \
of the Crucified which I, too, had begun to wish that I might \
be. Alas! that I should be so unworthy of Him, and so little \
able to show forth His glory!\'94 \
\
** Nevertheless, dearest Mother, those called at the eleventh \
hour in the parable of the Lord received as much as they \
who had borne the burden and heat of the day.\'94 \
\
\'91*T know it. And all the more praise be to His holy name, \
who has magnified His grace in calling such as I am, even at \
that eleventh hour.\'94 \
\
* Amen!\'94 said the younger woman. \'91\'91 Peace be with thee, \
Deaconess Rhoda.\'94 \
\
\'91Grace be upon thee, Deaconess Camilla! I was hurrying \
on so quickly that I saw thee not, my sister. Our beloved \
sister Sophronia is well, and her husband and children ?\'94 \
\
* All well, my sister, praise be to God. But my mother and \
I now live apart.\'94 \
\
\'93Surely I have heard it, but I forgot. I must not stay, \
for I promised my daughter Glaucia to be back as soon as \
possible to tend her sick child. Farewell, my sisters! The \
Lord be with you !\'94 \
\
And with a reciprocal farewell, Rhoda hurried on, while \
Aurelia and Camilla came more slowly towards their new home, \
hext door to the house of Marcellus Victor. \
\
\
THE END. \
\
\
\
\
}