{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 OST IN POMPEII. \
\
 It had made as great a sensation in the ship \
as it would have made in Tom\'92s immediate family \
and as in fact it did make when Tom detailed it in a \
long letter to his mother. \
\
I must say here that I am not at liberty to give \
Tom\'92s real name to the boys and girls of who read \
this. It was with great difficulty that I obtained \
his consent-to write the story for publication. I only \
regret, however, that I shall not be able to tell it in \
the simple, graphic way in which it was told to me. \
With his intelligent face lighted by the glow of \
Vesuvius, Tom. held my closest attention for the \
greater part of his watch. \
\
What boy has not been moved by the story of \
Pompeii! More than any other ancient city, it excites \
our sympathy and arouses our curiosity. How it \
was destroyed, the long centuries it lay completely \
entombed, the many beautiful things discovered in \
excavating it, as well as the sad things it reveals, \
have been repeated to us since earliest childhood. \
\
Tom, like thousands of other boys, had become an \
enthusiast over Pompeii; and, being now where he \
\
\
could almost see its walls from the ship\'92s foretop, he \
\
\
resolved to visit it at the earliest opportunity. He \
arranged, with two other midshipmen, to ask for two \
days\'92 leave when their duties would permit them to \
be absent from the ship. Strictly speaking, a mid- \
shipman\'92s duties would never allow him to be away \
from his ship. Tom, as young as he was, had to \
\'91stand watch, go in boats, do messenger duty, and \
once \'97shall I tell it on him?\'97he was sent after \
milk for the admiral\'92s baby. A midshipman ashore \
looks very grand in his brass buttons, and with his \
military bearing; but on board ship he is looked upon \
as a mere boy from the admiral down to \'93 Jack-of- \
the-dust.\'94 Fortunately, Tom got his leave all right, \
and one morning before sunrise he and his compan- \
ions were spinning out of Naples over the great \
highway that leads to Pompeii. \
\
I will not describe their beautiful, exhilarating \
ride. In about two hours the driver drew up at the \
Hotel Diomede just outside the walls of Pompeii, \
and announced their arrival. The crew of the \
a ; Jeannette would not attack a breakfast with a more arctic appetite than the boys did that awaiting \
\
\
them, Not even the singing and dancing of \
\
\
\
a band of street musicians could divert them. \
\
The boys felt remarkably lively when they had \
finished their breakfast and started for the city. \
They entered it by the Porta Marina, the ancient sea \
gate, and were at once among the shops and houses \
of Pompeii. How wonderfully real everything \
seemed! \'91The inhabitants of eighteen hundred years \
ago seemed to have just left the steets. There were \
the shops, the school-houses, the bakeries, nearly \
everything standing, and, as Tom humorously re- \
marked, \'93in excellent repair.\'94 Tom had seen just \
such shops in Smyrna, with jars of wine and oil in the \
counters, and he was quite surprised that they should \
be just like the shops before his eyes; but he soon \
discovered that the people of the East dwell in the \
same kind of houses, live about the same kind of \
domestic life, and carry on their business in about \
the same way, as the people of Pompeii did so many \
hundred years ago. \
\
He had been somewhat prepared for this line of \
discovery. At the museum in Naples he had learned \
in the cabinet of gems that our most beautiful forms \
\
\
of jewelry are mere copies of those worn by the rich \
\
\
\
2 ladies of Pompeii. A handsome bit which his father \
had once bought to restrain a vicious horse, and \
which had been extensively advertised as the greatest \
modern invention for that purpose, he found to be in \'92 \
every particular lik\'e9 the bits on a cluster of Pompeian \
war-bridles. \'91Tom wrote home that he had discovered \
nearly everything modern among the Pompeian col- \
lections, from a steel pen to a Singer sewing-machine.But we have no time for historical comparisons. \
The boys ran about the streets on a perfect lark. They tripped over the huge stepping-stones, sank \
\'93their feet into the ruts made by ancient chariots \
and drags, and brought up short against the fountains at the street corners. They chased each other \
in and out of the baths, up to the topmost walls of \
the temples of Jupiter and Venus, and- in another \
part of the city Tom infuriated the guide by running \
along the top of the old arcade with his comrades in \
full pursuit. In short, they looked into every hole \
and corner of Pompeii, the fat ouide puffing and \
\'93) blowing after them like 2 re and, Iam sorry \
to add, swearing too. \
\
\
Sleep was sweet that nipat at the Hotel Diomede, \
\
\
When the boys awoke, the sun had been long risen. \
They hurried through their toilet, ate a hasty break- \
fast, and by eight o'clock they had entered the city, \
with entirely new plans for the day. \
\
Tom had a decided talent for exploration. He \
liked to go from the main truck to the keel of a ship, \
and he treated an old building in the same way. \
He was, in fact, more interested in the foundations \
of temples and amphitheatres than in their upper \
works. \'91This day he declared his intention of seeing \
something of subterranean Pompeii. Like all good \
travellers he stuffed his pockets with candles, and \
refilled his spring box with matches, and felt well \
equipped for finding his way through the gloomiest \
passage he might get into. \
\
He left the other boys to dig in a house which was \
being excavated in honor of General Grant\'92s visit, \
which had been made to the city a short time previous; \
and started for the Temple of Isis, beneath which \
are some very curious passages. As he crossed the \
intersection of the streets Abundance and Stabie, he \
observed a large opening to the left, which curiosity \
\
\
led him to examine. Passing over to it, he looked \
down into what he thought must have been the main \
sewer of the ancient city which had been uncovered \
. at this place. It was about half fall of clear, swift- \
running water, swollen by recent rains almost to \
a torrent. While he conjectured the probable use \
of this ancient passage, his eye caught a bright little \
daisy springing from the wall close to the water\'92s edge. \
\'93What a souvenir that would be for my sister Kate !\'94\'92 \
he exclaimed; and without waiting an instant to \
consider possible consequences, he started down \
after it. \
The walls of the sewer were built of rough stones \
which projected far enough to give Tom excellent \
footing; and he began his descent with as much \
ease and confidence as he would \'93lay down from \
aloft.\'94 With his eye fixed on the daisy, he neglected \
to inspect that part of the wall lying just above it. \
Here was a large stone which from some cause had \
become so loose that it barely held its place in the \
wall. Unconsciously Tom put his hand upon this \
stone, and, depending his weight upon it, stooped to\
pick the daisy. Alas for poor Tom! no sooner had \
\
\
he reached down than the stone broke suddenly  \
\
\
away, and he was cast headlong into the boiling \
current. \
\
Quick as thought he turned, so that he should not \
be carried down head-foremost. He struck out with \
all his might, grasped at the stones, tried to touch \
bottom with his feet, and by clinging to the wall, see \
if he could not stay his progress down the stream. \
But his hands were cruelly torn away, and every time \
he struck bottom, his feet whre instantly swept from \
under him, and he was borne down with redoubled \
force. Despite his struggles, he had been carried \
so far that he could just discern the light falling into \
the sewer through the fatal aperture. It was grow- \
ing horribly dark. All he could do now was to keep \
himself on his back, and allow himself to be swept \
on without a struggle, and with scarcely a hope of \
escape. \
\
Tom\'92s heart sank within him. A vision of his \
beautiful home with all its love and solicitude came \
before him ; and the awful sense of his mother\'92s and \
sister\'92s grief, should they never hear from him again, \
came down upon his heart with crushing force. He \
\
\
thought of his messmates, of the grand old frigate \
\
\
of which he had been so proud, of a thousand beau- \
tiful things to which he must now bid good-by \
forever. Nota ray of light now came to Tom\'92s eyes, \
or to his mind; but he called back his fugitive cour- \
age, and resolved t6 drown as bravely as he would \
die if called to do so upon a quarterdeck. \
\
While all this was passing in Tom\'92s mind, he was \
suddenly thrown with almost stunning force against \
what seemed to him to be a projecting wall. For an \
instant he was drawn completely under by the suction \
at that point; then he seemed to be forced out of \
the old channel into a new one where the water was \
not more than half so deep as in the old. Nearly \
strangled, he recovered his feet, and found that he \
could stand without difficulty. When he had recov- \
ered his breath, he waded a few steps forward, and \
discovered that'the water all the time grew shallower. \
It was now scarcely up to his waist. He knew that \
it would be impossible to get back to the place where \
he had fallen in, and that there was nothing to do \
but to move on. He accounted for his improved \
situation, on the ground that the passage he was \
\
\
now in branched off from the main sewer. Carefully \
\
\
\
he felt his way along, grateful that he had been \
saved from immediate drowning, to say the least. \
After he had proceeded in this way several rods, the \
water all the time strangely subsiding, his progress was \
abruptly checked by the d\'e9\'e9rzs of an old wall which \
filled the passage full. \
\
He had been hoping to come upon another open- \
ing like that which occasioned his misfortune; but \
here he was, as it seemed, completely imprisoned. \
For a moment he was bewildered, and leaned for- \
ward upon the stones, not knowing what to do. \
\'93Ah!\'94 he said; \'93this is seeing, or rather feeling, \
subterranean Pompeii. This is worse than the \
catacombs ; for there, at least, you would be dry shod, \
and could keep moving for ten years.\'94 All at once \
the very simple thought occurred to him that if a \
wall had caved in, it would naturally leave some kind \
of an opening in the place where it had been stand- \
ing. \
\
Acting upon this very elementary logical sequence, \
he began to climb over the pile of stones, and pres- \
ently found himself in a very large cavity with his \
\
\
feet upon a smooth dry surface. He felt around till his hands came in contact with another wall of much heavier masonry than any he had thus far met. | \
aie Moving on, he was surprised by another wall run- \
ning at right angles with the one along which he had \
been feeling. As h\'e9:proceeded, his feet kept striking \
against what sounded wonderfully like earthenware, \
and all at once it dawned upon him that he was in a \
cellar ora dungeon. Following upon the heels of this \
:. thought was. the recollection that his pockets were \
a stuffed with candles. \
Boys-who camp out are usually wonderfully fertile \
in invention, and Tom was as clever as the cleverest \
of them. \'91Tom had this advantage: he could make \
wet candles burn more readily than wet wood. He \
_ quickly drew one from his pocket, cut off the end \
to get rid of the wet wick, and after violently rubbing \
his box till'the friction removed all the moisture, he \
Z struck a match, and had the joy of seeing his candle \
a burn. . \
Tom\'92s prospects now began to brighten, though : \
still in a very dubious state. He pulled off his \
\
\
clothes and wrung them as dry as ,possible, emptied \
the water out of his shoes, and felt by this process \
\
\
his weight diminish by something like a hundred \
pounds. He then began to examine his new quar- \
ters. He was delighted to find that he was indeed \
in a cellar. Great abutments here and there, dozens \
of jars ranged along the walls, made it clear to Tom \
that he had found his way into one of the large wine \
cellars of Pompeii. Why this cellar had not been \
filled with ashes and pumice stone like the others \
that had been found, he could not tell. Wiser \
people than Tom must answer this question. All he \
knew was that there was the cellar, and he was the \
only visitor it had had for eighteen hundred years. \
You would naturally expect Tom to feel very much \
exhausted about this time; and seeing so many jars \
he began to wonder if it could be possible that any \
of them contained wine. If eggshells, and nuts, \
and brown bread had been kept so long, why not \
wine in glazed jars hermetically sealed? Do not \
believe it, boys, if you do not wish to. But Tom \
actually told it to me, and I believe him. He found \
a jar containing real wine; and under the circum- \
stances any doctor would advise the most temperate \
\
\
boy to drink it, as Tom did on this occasion. What \
\
\
king or millionaire ever drank wine such as this that \
grew on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, it may be, two | \
thousand years ago! \
\
In a distant part of the cellar Tom found stone \
steps very much dilapidated and littered, but afford- \
ing room enough for a passage-way! Up these steps \
he crawled till he came to the remains of what had \
been a massive door. By the falling of a door, just \
room enough had been left to get through. Shield- \
ing his candle from the strong draft which followed \
him in his course from the sewer, our hero pushed \
his way through, and stepped into what appeared to \
be a large corridor, such as he had seen in the villa \
Diomede the day before. You can imagine Tom\'92s \
astonishment when he realized that he had dis- \
covered an actual house \'97a house, so far as. he had \
explored, which had not been filled up with ashes \
and pumice stone like the others that have been \
found. He could scarcely conceive the possibility \
of such a thing; but as far as he could see into the \
gloom of the corridor, everything was clear. \
\
So engrossed was Tom with the thought of his \
\
\
" great discovery that he forgot all about his wet condition, and the possibility that in a hundred years or \
so they might find his skeleton, and take it to be that \
of an ancient Pompeian youth. An inexperienced \
boy would have been appalled at the darkness out- \
side the little circle of light made by thecandle ; but \
Tom had been in trying situations before, though we \
must confess never in any so unpromising as the \
present. In fact, as he forced his way through a \
small side entrance, and stood in what was evidently \
a large room or court, his thoughts amused him. \
\
\'93\'91T wonder,\'94 he said, \'93if I rummage round here \
if it will wake up the family and make them think \
there\'92s a burglar in the house!\'94 He laughed out- \
right at this. He concluded, however, to take a look \
around, now that he was fairly in the house: after \
that he would consider the matter of his escape. \
\
Tom knew enough of the plan of a great Pompeian \
house to know now where he was, and to have a good \
idea of how to begin his investigations. \
\
His feelings being decidedly agricultural, he \
thought it would be a good plan to find the dining- \
room, though not with the slightest anticipation of \
\
\
getting anything to eat. But he thought the suggestion would be pleasant. All around him were the \
remains of what had once been the costliest furni- \
a ture, over which he was obliged to climb in making \
a his way to the opposite side. He entered what had \
E. been a richly ornamented room. It was small, but \
large enough to accommodate a good-sized family. \
A large bronze table stood in the centre of the floor, \
7 on three sides of which were broad seats on which \
the family reclined while eating. On the table stood \
several large dishes, one of which was covered with \
beautiful chased work of children playing on the \
backs of turtles, and climbing reeds in great glee \
along the River Nile. The walls were frescoed with lively hunting scenes, and midway between the \
floor and the ceiling was a panelling heavily plated \
with gold, running entirely around the room. \'93TI wouldn\'92t object to dining here,\'94 thought Tom, \'93 if the owner would only have his bright work polished \
\
\
up and the place\'92 scrubbed \'91and dusted.\'94 \
\
\
But Tom was obliged to make a more haste survey. \
\
His stock of candles was not large, and the all-important question of how he was going to escape from his prison had not been settled. Around the house\
\
\
\
he went, now looking at a picture, and now at a statue \
in bronze or marble. In one room he lingered \
several minutes, admiring what he took to be representations of the seven wonders of the world in \
bronze. He ran his hand over the smooth Colossus, \
and the polished shaft of the Pharos at Alexandria, \
and stopped long enough to count the one hundred \
and twenty-seven columns of the beautiful temple of \
Diana at Ephesus. In one room were many rolls of \
papyri, or ancient Latin writings, and in the same \
room was a statue of Venus, which Tom thought the \
loveliest of \'91all he had ever seen. One room was \
full of busts and statues, which he judged to be the \
adicula, or chapel of the establishment, the place \
where the \'93household gods \'94 were worshipped. All \
the while beautiful pictures looked down upon him \
from the walls; and he felt that he was in one of the \
wealthiest and most magnificent houses of the \
ancient world. Thus he went about examining many \
\
objects of great beauty and value which will one day | \
astonish the world ; and was about to form some plan \
of escape, when by mere accident he stepped into \
\
\
one of the sleeping apartments of the house. \
\
\
\
The sleeping rooms of an ancient house were very \
small, but oftentimes were fitted up with great \
\
\
elegance. The one in which Tom found himself \
\
\
\'91had been one of the richest. The cornice work had \
\
\
been heavily gilded, and evidently the finest painters \
had been employed to decorate the walls, Though \
kowing little about mythology, Tom had been captivated by the graceful,: airy figures in the museum, \
but he had seen nothing which he thought could \
compare with the wonderful forms before his eyes. He \
thought, \'91This must have been the boudoir of a beautiful young lady,\'94 and Tom\'92s gallant soul was deeply \
moved by his fancy. \'91Who knows,\'94 he continued, \
\'93but at the great destruction she died in this house, \
and that in this very room I may find evidence\
\
As he thought thus, he cast his eyes towards a \
little inlaid table, the top of which rested upon a \
delicate silver shaft, and saw upon it a drinking cup \
of most exquisite form. This cup was of silver and \
gold, and in his hand seemed of astonishing weight. \
When he had rubbed it a little, he found it to be set \
\
\
with precious stones, and to be richly wrought in \
\
scenes of Bacchanalian feasts. A little gold lamp \
stood with it on the table. In one corner of the \
room stood the bedstead. Something about it at once \
arrested Tom\'92s attention. It was so graceful, and so \
different from anything else he had ever seen, that \
he began to examine it minutely. It was apparently \
of solid silver. About the posts heavily laden vines \
were entwined, and along the other parts were pict- \
ures in relief, all composed of a shining substance \
like gold. It was a couch befitting a Cleopatra. \
Upon the bed was a dark substance which Tom \
had not as yet noticed. As he glanced down upon \
it, he gave a start; for there indeed was evidence that \
this was once the couch of one who had been no \
doubt one of Pompeii\'92s most charming ladies. Glittering among the few small bones which were all \
that now remained was a ring. Tom very tenderly, \
though with considerable trepidation, drew the ring \
from the delicate bone of a once beautiful finger, \
gathered up his drinking cup and his gold lamp, and \
wished, like another Aladdin, that he might, with his \
lamp and ring, summon genii who could at once \
\
\
transport him to the surface of the earth. \
\
\
Tom had seen more wonderful things than I can \
relate, and now set about in earnest to make his \
escape. He lighted a fresh candle and began to \
circumnavigate the interior of the house. For an \
hour he examined different places to ascertain if he \
might not, by digging, effect a passageout. A small \
avalanche of dirt showed him the danger of his \
method of sapping and mining. He was forced \
finally to resort to the sewer. He passed through \
the cellar and crawled out on to the fallen wall which \
had made the only opening into the house, and soon, \
\
\
by hard lifting, he moved a sufficient number of the \
stones to admit him into the sewer on the other side \
\
\
of the obstruction. He was overjoyed to find it quite \
free from water. \
\
\
I will not describe the weary hours Tom spent in \
\
\
black passages, now crawling, now walking erect, \
\
\
alternating between hope and fear. At last, when he \
was about to give up in despair, a faint ray of light \
caught his eye and thrilled him with new hope and \
courage. \'91Through sand and bushes he at last forced \
his way into liberty, for he had found: the mouth of \
\
\
a sewer. The sun was just setting, and cast a \
\
\
beautiful halo about the place where Tom emerged. \
He threw himself down exhausted, but was cheered \
by the golden sunlight and the music of the sea that \
came rippling up almost to his feet. Glad was he \
that night to accept the hospitality of a poor fisher- \
man; and, with his treasures safely hid under his \
pillow, he slept as sweetly as in the easiest hammock. \
\
The news of Tom\'92s adventure spread like wildfire \
over Naples. Signor Fiorelli, the supervisor of excavations at Pompeii and director of the JZuseo \
Nazionale, called upon the Admiral to ascertain the \
truth of the report, and Tom was summoned into \
the cabin, and through an interpreter told what I have \
already related. Signor Fiorelli said, after he had \
heard all the facts, and carefully examined the objects \
that Tom had brought away with him, that in all probability the world awaits the most interesting discovery in Pompeii of any that has been made. \
\
Tom honestly gave up his curios, but Signor \
Fiorelli returned the lamp and the cup, keeping the \
ring for its great value. On the ring was found a \
delicate inscription in Latin, which you may easily read ; \
\
\
and whose value to Signor Fiorelli and the world I \
\
\
\
Julia, filia Diomedis. \
\
be On a little richly inlaid table in a beautiful parlor \
\
Be on Lexington Avenue stands the gold lamp highly polished, In a charming manner Miss Kate Morgan \
"relates her brother Tom\'92s adventure. Another beautiful young lady residing on Fifth Avenue, whose \
\
\
name is well known in art circles, prizes the cup as \
\
\
; the richest of all her gifts, and the one who gave it \
\
as the best of all her friends.}