{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red109\green109\blue109;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth16440\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sa428\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SCENE FROM "THE LAST DAYS OF\uc0\u8232 POMPEII."\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 Arranged by Marguerite W. Morton\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 (1)\cf0 \ulnone  Glaucus, an Athenian, has been adjudged guilty of the murder of Ap\'e6cides, a priest of Isis, and doomed to the arena, where criminals were condemned to fight with wild beasts. The crime was really committed by Arbaces, the Egyptian. The only eye-witness of the deed was a priest, Calenus, whom Arbaces incarcerated in a secret dungeon, leaving him, as he thought, to die of starvation. Accident led to his discovery by Nydia, and he was rescued by Sallust, a friend of Glaucus.\
\'a0\'a0While awaiting his doom Glaucus was confined in a gloomy cell with a Christian, Olinthus, who was also under sentence of death. The applauses of the amphitheatre, as victim after victim fell in desperate conflict before the eyes of the blood-thirsty crowd, came faintly to their ears.\
\'a0\'a0\cf3 \ul (2)\cf0 \ulnone  "Hark! \cf3 \ul (3)\cf0 \ulnone  hearest thou that shout?" said Olinthus. \cf3 \ul (4)\cf0 \ulnone  "They are growling over their human blood!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (5)\cf0 \ulnone "I hear; my heart grows sick; \cf3 \ul (6)\cf0 \ulnone  but the gods support me! \cf3 \ul (7)\cf0 \ulnone Dost thou hear them drag yon heavy body through the passage? Such as that clay will be ours, soon."\
\'a0\'a0The doors swung gratingly back \'97 the gleam of spears shot along the walls.\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (8)\cf0 \ulnone "Glaucus, the Athenian, thy time has come," said a loud voice. "The lion awaits thee."\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (9)\cf0 \ulnone "I am ready," said the Athenian. \cf3 \ul (10)\cf0 \ulnone  "Brother and co-mate \cf3 \ul (11)\cf0 \ulnone one last embrace. \cf3 \ul (12)\cf0 \ulnone Bless me \'97 and farewell \'97 \cf3 \ul (13)\cf0 \ulnone  Worthy officer, I attend you."\
\'a0\'a0When Glaucus came forth into the air, its hot breath smote witheringly upon him. His frame shrank and trembled.\
\'a0\'a0"Courage!" said the officer who supported him. "Thou art young, active, well-knit. They give thee a weapon! Despair not and thou may'st yet conquer."\
\'a0\'a0They placed a stilus in his hand and led him into the arena. And now, when the Greek saw the eyes of thousands and tens of thousands upon him, he no longer felt that he was mortal. All fear was gone. A haughty flush spread over his features. He towered aloft to the full of his glorious stature. He seemed the very incarnation of the valor of his land, of the divinity of its worship \'97 at once a hero and a god. The murmur of hatred and horror which had greeted his entrance died into the silence of involuntary respect. The gaze of the spectators turned from the Athenian \cf3 \ul (14)\cf0 \ulnone  to a dark, uncouth object in the centre of the arena. It was the grated den of the lion. Slowly the editor gave the sign. The keeper cautiously removed the grating and the lion sprang forth with a mighty roar. \cf3 \ul (15)\cf0 \ulnone Glaucus, with his shining weapon raised on high, awaited the expected rush of the beast. \cf3 \ul (16)\cf0 \ulnone But, to the astonishment of all, the lion seemed not even aware of the presence of the criminal. At half speed it circled round and round the space, turning its head from side to side as if seeking only some avenue of escape, and its eye, though it wandered at times to Glaucus, rolled listlessly from him again. At length it crept with a moan into its cage.\
\'a0\'a0The editor called to the keeper:\
\'a0\'a0"How is this? Take the goad! prick him forth, and then close the door of the cage!"\
\'a0\'a0As the keeper was preparing to obey, \cf3 \ul (17)\cf0 \ulnone a loud cry was heard at one of the entrances of the arena. There was a confusion \'97 the crowd gave away, and suddenly Sallust appeared on the senatorial benches.\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (18)\cf0 \ulnone "Remove the Athenian!" he cried. "Haste \'97 he is innocent! Arrest Arbaces, the Egyptian. He is the murderer of Ap\'e6cides!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (19)\cf0 \ulnone "Art thou mad, Sallust?" cried the pr\'e6tor. "What means this raving?"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (20)\cf0 \ulnone "Remove the Athenian! \'97 Quick! or his blood be on your head. Pr\'e6tor, delay, and you answer with your life to the Emperor! I bring with me the eye-witness to the death of the priest Ap\'e6cides. \cf3 \ul (21)\cf0 \ulnone Room there \'97 stand back! \'97 give way! \cf3 \ul (22)\cf0 \ulnone People of Pompeii, fix every eye upon Arbaces. \cf3 \ul (23)\cf0 \ulnone There he sits! \cf3 \ul (24)\cf0 \ulnone Room, there for the priest Calenus!"\
\'a0\'a0Pale, haggard, fresh from the jaws of famine and of death, Calenus was supported into the very row in which Arbaces sat.\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (25)\cf0 \ulnone "The priest Calenus! \'97 Calenus!" cried the mob. "Is it he? \cf3 \ul (26)\cf0 \ulnone No, it is a dead man!"\
\'a0\'a0"It is the priest Calenus," said the pr\'e6tor, gravely. \cf3 \ul (27)\cf0 \ulnone "What hast thou to say?"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (28)\cf0 \ulnone "Arbaces of Egypt is the murderer of Ap\'e6cides, the priest of Isis. These eyes saw him deal the blow. It is from the dungeon into which he plunged me \'97 it is \'97 \cf3 \ul (29)\cf0 \ulnone it is \'97 from the darkness and horror of a death by famine that the gods have raised me to proclaim his crime! Release the Athenian \'97 he is innocent!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (30)\cf0 \ulnone "It is for this, then, that the lion spared him \'97 a miracle! \'97 a miracle!" cried Pansa.\
\'a0\'a0"A miracle! a miracle!" shouted the people. "Remove the Athenian! \cf3 \ul (31)\cf0 \ulnone Arbaces to the lion!" And that shout echoed from hill to vale, from coast to sea. \cf3 \ul (32)\cf0 \ulnone "Arbaces to the lion!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (33)\cf0 \ulnone "Officers, remove the accused Glaucus \'97 remove, but guard him yet," said the pr\'e6tor. \cf3 \ul (34)\cf0 \ulnone "The gods lavish their wonders upon this day! \cf3 \ul (35)\cf0 \ulnone  Calenus, priest of Isis, thou accusest Arbaces of the murder of Ap\'e6cides?"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (36)\cf0 \ulnone "I do."\
\'a0\'a0"Thou didst behold the deed?"\
\'a0\'a0"Pr\'e6tor, with these eyes \'97\'97"\
\'a0\'a0"Enough, at present. \cf3 \ul (37)\cf0 \ulnone Arbaces of Egypt, thou hearest the charge against thee \'97 thou hast not yet spoken \'97 what hast thou to say?"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (38)\cf0 \ulnone "Pr\'e6tor, this charge is so mad that it scarcely deserves reply. My first accuser is the noble Sallust, the most intimate friend of Glaucus! My second is a priest. I revere his garb and calling \'97 but, \cf3 \ul (39)\cf0 \ulnone people of Pompeii, ye know somewhat of the character of Calenus. \cf3 \ul (40)\cf0 \ulnone The witness of such men is to be bought! \cf3 \ul (41)\cf0 \ulnone  Pr\'e6tor, I am innocent."\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (42)\cf0 \ulnone "Sallust," said the magistrate, "where found you Calenus?"\
\'a0\'a0"In the dungeons of Arbaces."\
\'a0\'a0"Egyptian," said the pr\'e6tor, frowning, "thou didst then dare to imprison a priest of the gods? \'97 and wherefore?"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (43)\cf0 \ulnone "Hear me!" said Arbaces. "This man came to threaten that he would make against me the charge he has now made unless I would purchase his silence with half my fortune. Noble pr\'e6tor, \cf3 \ul (44)\cf0 \ulnone and ye, O people, I was a stranger in the land. I knew myself innocent of the charge, yet the witness of a priest against me might destroy me. I may have erred \'97 but who among you will not acknowledge the equity of self-preservation? For the rest, I throw myself on your laws. I demand their protection. I will willingly appear before the legitimate tribunal and cheerfully abide by its decision. This is no place for further parley."\
\'a0\'a0"He says right," said the pr\'e6tor. "Ho! guards, remove Arbaces \'97 guard Calenus! Sallust, we hold you responsible for your accusation. \cf3 \ul (45)\cf0 \ulnone Let the sports be resumed!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (46)\cf0 \ulnone "What?" cried Calenus, turning round to the people. "Shall Isis be thus contemned? Shall the blood of Ap\'e6cides yet cry for vengeance? Shall justice be delayed now that it may be frustrated hereafter? \cf3 \ul (47)\cf0 \ulnone A god! a god! I feel the god rush to my lips! To the lion \'97 to the lion with Arbaces!"\
\'a0\'a0His exhausted frame could support no more. He sank to the ground in strong convulsions. The people saw and shuddered.\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (48)\cf0 \ulnone "It is a god that inspires the holy man? To the lion with the Egyptian! Arbaces to the lion!"\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (49)\cf0 \ulnone With that cry up sprang \'97 on moved thousands upon thousands! They rushed from the heights \'97 they poured down in the direction of the Egyptian. In vain did the \'e6dile command \'97 in vain did the pr\'e6tor lift his voice and proclaim the law. His power was as a reed beneath the whirlwind. \cf3 \ul (50)\cf0 \ulnone In despair and terror which beat down even pride, Arbaces glanced over the rolling, rushing crowd \'97 when, right above them, through the wide chasm which had been left in the velaria, he beheld a strange and awful apparition \'97 he beheld, and his craft restored his courage.\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (51)\cf0 \ulnone "Behold!" he shouted. "Behold how the gods protect the guiltless! \cf3 \ul (52)\cf0 \ulnone Fires of the avenging Orcus burst forth against the false witness of my accusers."\
\'a0\'a0 \cf3 \ul (53)\cf0 \ulnone The eyes of the crowd followed the gesture of the Egyptian, and beheld, with ineffable dismay, a vast vapor shooting from the summit of Vesuvius in the form of a gigantic pine-tree \'97 the trunk, blackness, the branches, fire. \cf3 \ul (54)\cf0 \ulnone There was a dead, heart-sunken silence, through which there suddenly broke the fierce roar of the lions. Dread seers were they of the burden of the atmosphere and wild prophets of the wrath to come. \cf3 \ul (55)\cf0 \ulnone No longer thought the crowd of justice or of Arbaces. \cf3 \ul (56)\cf0 \ulnone  They felt the earth shake beneath their feet; \cf3 \ul (57)\cf0 \ulnone the walls of the theatre trembled; \cf3 \ul (58)\cf0 \ulnone beyond in the distance, they heard the crash of falling roofs. An instant more, and the mountain-cloud \cf3 \ul (59)\cf0 \ulnone  rolled toward them, dark and rapid like a torrent. Over the crushing vines, over the desolate streets, over the amphitheatre itself, fell that awful shower. \cf3 \ul (60)\cf0 \ulnone Darker and larger and mightier spread the cloud above them. Then, \cf3 \ul (61)\cf0 \ulnone amid groans and oaths and prayers and sudden shrieks, \cf3 \ul (62)\cf0 \ulnone closed in that ghastly night.\
\cell \lastrow\row
}